---
ID: 547
post_title: AJAX
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/ajax/
published: true
post_date: 2019-02-20 15:01:17
---
<h2>Introduction</h2>
AJAX stands for Asynchronous Javascript + XML. It is used to create dynamic Web pages. Asynchronous means that browserdoes not wait for the response of the server and freeze the display of the page, but processe the response when it is available. Ajax can dynamically modify a part of a page without the need to reload the whole page.
As the name suggested, Ajax is a set of technologies, includes but not limited to JavaScript and XML;
<ul>
 	<li>HTML for web page.</li>
 	<li> CSS for the look and feel.</li>
 	<li> JavaScript for browser process.</li>
 	<li>DOM to access data inside the page or to access elements of XML file read on the server.</li>
 	<li>XMLHttpRequest object is used to read or send data on the server asynchronously.</li>
 	<li>Server language.</li>
</ul>
DHTML (Dynamic HTML) has same purpose. Ajax is DHTML plus the XHR object to exchange data with the server.
<h2>AJAX XMLHttpRequest</h2>
The main part of AJAX is XMLHttpRequest.
<h2></h2>
<h3>XMLHttpRequest Attributes</h3>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><b>readyState</b></td>
<td> The state of availability of data is given by the readyState attribute of XMLHttpRequest.
<ul>
 	<li><b>0:</b> not initialized.</li>
 	<li><b>1:</b> connection established.</li>
 	<li><b>2:</b> request received.</li>
 	<li><b>3:</b> answer in process.</li>
 	<li><b>4:</b> finished.</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>status</b></td>
<td> 200: OK
404: page is not found.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>responseText</b></td>
<td>holds loaded data from server as plain text.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>responseXml</b></td>
<td>holds an XML loaded file.
DOM's method allows to extract data.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>onreadystatechange</b></td>
<td> property that takes a function as value that is invoked when the readystatechange event is dispatched.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h3></h3>
<h3>XMLHttpRequest Methods</h3>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><b>open</b>(mode, url, boolean)</td>
<td> mode: type of request, GET or POST.
url: the location of the file, with a path.
boolean: true (asynchronous) / false (synchronous).
optionally, a login and a password may be added to arguments.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>send</b>("string")</td>
<td> POST if string is not null; null for a GET command.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h2>AJAX Steps</h2>
<b>Create an instance</b>
<pre lang="javascript">try {
  xhr = new ActiveXObject("Microsoft.XMLHTTP");  // Trying IE
} catch(e) { // Failed, use standard object
  xhr = new XMLHttpRequest(); 
}</pre>
<b>Wait for the response</b>

The response and further processing are included in a function and the return of the function will be assigned to the onreadystatechange attribute of the object previously created.
<pre>// instructions to process the response     
xhr.onreadystatechange = function(){ 
  if (xhr.readyState == 4) {
    // Received, OK
  } else {
    // Wait...
  }
};
</pre>
<b>Make the request itself</b>

The request below read a document on the server.
<pre lang="javascript">xhr.open('GET', 'https://www.xul.fr/somefile.xml', true);                  
xhr.send(null);</pre>
<h2>AJAX Framework</h2>
Raw AJAX code is hard to maintain, so we have AJAX framework. The client AJAX framework is jQuery.Server Frameworks depend on programming language.