---
ID: 595
post_title: PHP
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/php/
published: true
post_date: 2019-02-21 17:43:45
---
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=gbk">
<h2>PHP Introduction</h2>
PHP is a recursive acronym. It stands for "PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor". PHP is a general-purpose scripting language , especially suited for writing dynamically generated web pages. Its syntax draws upon C, Java, and Perl.
<h3>PHP Installation</h3>
To install PHP, go to <a href="http://www.php.net/">PHP official website</a> to download a zip package and extract it on your laptop. If your are using Windows, you need set PATH environment variable point to your PHP directory. Then open command line and type,
<pre>C:\php&gt;php.exe -v
PHP 7.3.2 (cli) (built: Feb  5 2019 22:55:35) ( ZTS MSVC15 (Visual C++ 2017) x64 )
Copyright (c) 1997-2018 The PHP Group
Zend Engine v3.3.2, Copyright (c) 1998-2018 Zend Technologies</pre>
If you see above information, your PHP environment is ready.
<h3>PHP Hello, World!</h3>
Create index.php with below code in it.
<pre>&lt;!DOCTYPE HTML&gt;
&lt;html&gt;
  &lt;head&gt;
    &lt;title&gt;Main&lt;/title&gt;
  &lt;/head&gt;
  &lt;body&gt;
    &lt;?php echo "Hello, world!"; ?&gt;
  &lt;/body&gt;
&lt;/html&gt;</pre>
Note the code is almost pure HTML, except there is one line of PHP code embedded.The PHP code is enclosed in tags &lt;?php and ?&gt; that allow you switch between PHP code and HTML code.

When PHP parses a file, it looks for opening and closing tags &lt;?php and ?&gt;, which tell PHP to start and stop interpreting the code between them. In this way, PHP can to be embedded in all sorts of different documents, since everything outside of a pair of opening and closing tags is ignored by the PHP parser.

Now run the code with PHP built-in web server.
<pre>php.exe -S localhost:8000</pre>
And visit http://localhost:8000/ in your browser. You will see "Hello, World!" printed in your browser.

Note this built-in web server was designed for testing purposes, not intended to be a full-featured web server.

PHP is mainly for server-side scripting, but you also can use it for command line scripting. If you are learning PHP grammar, the best way is using command line scripting.

Below almost all examples can run from command line directly, some example need built-in server.
<h2>PHP Basics</h2>
<h3>PHP Variables</h3>
<b>PHP Predefined Variables</b>

PHP provides a large number of predefined variables.Below are two examples.

<b>$_SERVER</b> is an array containing information such as headers, paths, and script locations. The entries in this array are created by the web server. There is no guarantee that every web server will provide any of these; servers may omit some, or provide others not listed here.

Suppose we have index.php like this.
<pre>&lt;?php echo $_SERVER['HTTP_USER_AGENT']; ?&gt;</pre>
Run built-in server, you will see http user agents printed,
<pre>Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/72.0.3626.109 Safari/537.36</pre>
Now suppose you want to interact with your user, and you provide a form in index.php,
<pre>&lt;form method="post"&gt;
 &lt;p&gt;Name: &lt;input type="text" name="name" /&gt;&lt;/p&gt;
 &lt;p&gt;Age: &lt;input type="text" name="age" /&gt;&lt;/p&gt;
 &lt;p&gt;&lt;input type="submit" /&gt;&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;/form&gt;
&lt;?php
if ($_POST['name']) {
  echo "Hello, " . htmlspecialchars($_POST['name']) . "!&lt;/br&gt;";
  echo "You are " . (int)$_POST['age']. " years old.";
}</pre>
Run built-in server, fill-in your name, age, and press submit button. The POST information will submit to server and processed by PHP code.

<b>$_POST</b> is an associative array of variables passed to the current script via the HTTP POST method. In above example, $_POST['name'] and $_POST['age'] are values send from user to you.