---
ID: 692
post_title: C++
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/cpp/
published: true
post_date: 2019-03-05 22:55:22
---
<h2>C++ Introduction</h2>
<p>C++ is a general-purpose programming language. It was designed with a bias toward system programming. C++ is used in desktop applications, servers, and performance-critical applications.</p>
<p>C++ is a high-level compiled programming language. It is compiled by a compiler to machine instructions and requires run-time support. C++ supports imperative procedure, objected-oriented, and generic programming paradigms.</p>
<p>C++ is a static, strongly typed language. C++ type system is not so strong cause C++ supports implicit conversions, and allows pointer values to be explicitly cast.</p>

<h3>C++ Versions</h3>
C++ is an ANSI standardized language. It keeps backward compatible. The difference between different versions is not an issue for most users.
<h3>C++ Environment Setup</h3>
If you are using a Linux machine, you should already have GCC compiler installed on your machine; if you are using Windows or Mac, you have at least two options:

The C/C++ compiler in Microsoft Visual Studio Community Edition.

GCC, bundled in a MinGW distribution.

All the code in the course are compiled with GCC g++ compiler, if you are using other compiler or some integrated development environment, you should spend the time to figure out how to use your tool before reading further. It worth to spend the time to establish your developing environment, cause the only way to learn a programming language is to write a program in the language.

To check if you have g++ installed, open the Terminal and type:
<pre>&gt; g++ --version
g++ (Ubuntu 5.4.0-6ubuntu1~16.04.10) 5.4.0 20160609
Copyright (C) 2015 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO 
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
</pre>
You can see the version number printed on the screen.
<h3>C++ "Hello, World!"</h3>
Here is a C++ program that print "Hello, World!" on your screen:
<pre lang="c++">//Hello, World!
#include &lt;iostream&gt;
int main()
{
  std::cout&lt;&lt;”Hello, World!”&lt;&lt;std::endl;
  return 0;
}
</pre>
The first line is a comment. Comments used for developers. Compiler will ignore comments.

The second line is an include directive; it includes the iostream library for future usage.

The rest lines define a function. A function definition has four elements: a return type, a function name, a possibly empty parameter list enclosed in parentheses, and a function body. The function body, is a block of statements starting with an open curly brace, ‘{‘, and ending with a close curly, ‘}’.

Every C++ program contains one or more functions, one of which must be named main.

The operating system runs a C++ program by calling main. The main function has a return type of int. The int type represents integers. Types are one of the most fundamental concepts in programming. A type defines both the contents of a data element and the operations that are possible on those data. The data our programs manipulate are stored in variables and every variable has a type.

On operating systems, the value returned from main is a status indicator. A return value of 0 indicates success; A nonzero return indicates some kind of error occurred.

The first statement defined in the function is to print "Hello World" to std::out, and ended with std::endl.

The second statement is a return that terminates the function. A return can send a value back to the function's caller. The value returned must have a type that is compatible with the return type of the function. Semicolons mark the end of most statements in C++. They are easy to overlook but, when forgotten, can lead to mysterious compiler error messages.

Compiling and Executing a C++ Program

After writing the program, we need to compile it. How you compile a program depends on your operating system and compiler. Compilers expect program source code to be stored in one or more files, called source files. On most systems, the name of a source file ends with a suffix, which is a period followed by one or more characters. The suffix tells the system that the file is a C++ program.

Different compilers use different suffix conventions; the most common include .cc, .cxx, .cpp, .cp, and .C.

If we are using a command-line interface, we will typically compile a program in a console window (such as a shell window on a UNIX system or a Command Prompt window on Windows). Assuming that our main program is in a file named app.cpp, we might compile it by using a command such as,
<pre>$ gcc app.cp
</pre>
where gcc is the compiler and $ is the system prompt. The compiler generates an executable file. On a Windows system, that executable file is named app.exe. UNIX compilers tend to put their executables in files named a.out.

To run an executable on Windows, we supply the executable file name and can omit the .exe file extension:
<pre>$ app
</pre>
To run an executable on UNIX, we use the full file name, including the file extension:
<pre>$ a.out
</pre>
Note: Depending on the release of the GNU compiler you are using, you may need to specify -std=c++0x to turn on C++ 11 support.
<h2> C++ Basics</h2>
In this part, we will cover basic components in C++ language.
<h3>C++ Basic Types, Operators, and Expressions</h3>
Everything has a type. Types tell us what our data mean, and what operation can be performed on the data. Some types are built-in in the languages, called primitive types.
<h3>C++ Primitive Types</h3>
Below are basic data types in C++:

void, no value

bool, boolean

char, character, one byte

wchar_t, wilder character, two bytes

short, short integer, smaller size than int

int, integer, the natural size of integers on the host machine

long, long integer, bigger size than int

float, single-precision floating point, smaller size than double

double, double-precision floating point, the natural size of floating number on the host machine

long double, extended-precision floating point, bigger size than double

C qualifiers can be applied to these basic types. short and long are actually qualifiers applied to integers. long also applied to double. The qualifier signed or unsigned may be applied to char or integer. unsigned numbers are always positive or zero, while signed numbers may be negative.

The size of the primitive types varies across machines. By size, we mean the number of bytes used to represent the type. The standard guarantees a minimum size for each of the primitive types, and compilers may use a larger size than is strictly required. We can use sizeof() to check the size of date types.
<pre>cout &lt;&lt; "Size of void is " &lt;&lt; sizeof(void) &lt;&lt; endl; 
cout &lt;&lt; "Size of bool is " &lt;&lt; sizeof(bool) &lt;&lt; endl; 
cout &lt;&lt; "Size of char is " &lt;&lt; sizeof(char) &lt;&lt; endl; 
cout &lt;&lt; "Size of wchar_t is " &lt;&lt; sizeof(wchar_t) &lt;&lt; endl; 
cout &lt;&lt; "Size of short is " &lt;&lt; sizeof(short) &lt;&lt; endl; 
cout &lt;&lt; "Size of int is " &lt;&lt; sizeof(int) &lt;&lt; endl; 
cout &lt;&lt; "Size of long is " &lt;&lt; sizeof(long) &lt;&lt; endl; 
cout &lt;&lt; "Size of float is " &lt;&lt; sizeof(float) &lt;&lt; endl; 
cout &lt;&lt; "Size of double is " &lt;&lt; sizeof(double) &lt;&lt; endl; 
cout &lt;&lt; "Size of long double is " &lt;&lt; sizeof(long double) &lt;&lt; endl;</pre>
The result is machine dependent,
<pre>Size of void is 1 
Size of bool is 1 
Size of char is 1 
Size of wchar_t is 4 
Size of short is 2 
Size of int is 4 
Size of long is 8 
Size of float is 4 
Size of double is 8 
Size of long double is 16</pre>
Notice the compiler warns about we apply sizeof on void type.