---
ID: 542
post_title: RESTful
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/restful/
published: true
post_date: 2019-02-20 03:08:55
---
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8">
<title></title>
<h2>REST Introduction</h2>
REST is an important technologies for Web applications. Major programming languages have frameworks for RESTful Web services. REST stands for Representational State Transfer. A service based on REST is called a RESTful service. RESTful service uses HTTP as its underlying protocol.
<h3>REST Features</h3>
<b>Representations: </b>RESTful service is to provide access to resources, and the first step is to provide a good representations for these resources.

<b>Messages: </b>Clients send a request message to the server, and the server replies with a response message. Apart from the actual data, these messages also contain some metadata.

<b>Addressing Resources: </b> REST requires each resource to have at least one URI. A RESTful service uses a directory hierarchy to address its resources. This URL has following format: Protocol://ServiceName/ResourceType/ResourceID.

Here are some important recommendations for well-structured URIs:

* Use plural nouns for naming your resources.

* Avoid using spaces as they create confusion. Use an _ (underscore) or – (hyphen) instead.

* A URI is case insensitive.

* If you need to change the location of a resource, do not discard the old URI. If a request comes for the old URI, use status code 300 and redirect the client to the new location.

* Avoid verbs for your resource names until your resource is actually an operation or a process. Verbs are more suitable for the names of operations.&nbsp;

* You should use query parameters only for the use they are intended for: providing parameter values to a process.

<b>Uniform Interface: </b>RESTful systems should have a uniform interface. HTTP 1.1 provides a set of methods, called verbs, for this purpose. Among these the more important verbs are:

GET: Read a resource.
PUT: Insert a new resource or update if the resource already exists.
POST: Insert a new resource. Also can be used to update an existing resource.
DELETE: Delete a resource.
OPTIONS: List the allowed operations on a resource.
HEAD: Return only the response headers and no response body.

<i>Difference between PUT and POST</i>

These two methods are almost the same, but they are not. No matter how many times you send a PUT request, the results will be the same. Making a POST multiple times may result in multiple resources getting created on the server.

Another difference is that, with PUT, you must always specify the complete URI of the resource. This implies that the client should be able to construct the URI of a resource even if it does not yet exist on the server. This is possible when it is the client's job to choose a unique name or ID for the resource, just like creating a user on the server requires the client to choose a user ID. If a client is not able to guess the complete URI of the resource, then you have no option but to use POST.

<b>Statelessness:</b> A RESTful service is stateless and does not maintain the application state for any client. A request cannot be dependent on a past request and a service treats each request independently.&nbsp;

A resource representation can contain links to other resources like an HTML page contains links to other pages. The representations returned by the service should drive the process flow as in case of a website.

Let's consider the case in which a client requests one resource that contains multiple other resources. Instead of dumping all these resources, you can list the resources and provide links to them. Links help keep the representations small in size.

<b>Caching:</b> Caching is the concept of storing the generated results and using the stored results instead of generating them repeatedly if the same request arrives in the near future. This can be done on the client, the server, or on any other component between them, such as a proxy server. Caching is a great way of enhancing the service performance, but if not managed properly, it can result in client being served stale results.