---
ID: 888
post_title: Git
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/git/
published: true
post_date: 2019-04-02 16:55:57
---
<h2>Git Introduction</h2>
<p>The major difference between Git and any other VCS (Version Control System) is the way Git thinks about its data. 
Conceptually, most other systems store information as a list of file-based changes. These systems (CVS, Subversion, Perforce, Bazaar, and so on) think of the information they keep as a set of
files and the changes made to each file over time.
Git thinks of its data more like a set of snapshots of a miniature file system.</p>
<p>Install Git on Linux, </p>
<pre>sudo apt-get install git-all</pre>
<p>Get help,</p>
<pre>
$ git help <verb>
$ git <verb> --help
$ man git-<verb>
</pre>
<p>Set your user name and email address.</p>
<pre>$ git config --global user.name "Tom Zhang"
$ git config --global user.email tom.zhang@example.com
</pre>
<p>Configure the default text editor,</p>
<pre>git config --global core.editor emacs</pre>
<p>Check your setting</p>
<pre>git config --list</pre>

<h2>Git Basics</h2>
<p>Each file in your working directory can be in one of two states: tracked or untracked. 
Tracked files are files that were in the last snapshot; they can be unmodified, modified, or staged. 
Untracked files are everything else – any files in your working directory that were not in your last snapshot and are not in your staging area. 
When you first clone a repository, all of your files will be tracked and unmodified because Git just checked them out and you haven’t edited anything.
As you edit files, Git sees them as modified, because you’ve changed them since your last commit. 
You stage these modified files and then commit all your staged changes, and the cycle repeats.
</p>

<ul>
<li>git init - Initializing a repository in an existing directory</li>
<li>git clone - Cloning an existing repository</li>
<li>git status - Checking the Status of your files. If you run git status -s or git status --short you get a far more simplified output from the command</li>
<li>git add - A multipurpose command. You use it to begin tracking new files, to stage files, and to do other things like marking merge-conflicted files as resolved. Git stages a file exactly as it is when you run the git add command. If you modify a file after you run git add, you have to run git add again to stage the latest version of the file.</li>
<li>git diff - Compares what is in your working directory with what is in your staging area.</li>
<li>git commit - Commit changes. Adding the -a option to the git commit command makes Git automatically stage every file that is already tracked before doing the commit, letting you skip
the git add part. One of the common undos takes place when you commit too early and possibly forget to add some files, or you mess up your commit message. If you want to try that commit again, you can run commit with the --amend option.</li>
<li>git rm - Remove from your tracked files. </li>
<li>git reset - Unstaging a Staged File.</li>
<li>git log - Viewing the commit history.</li>
<li>git checkout -- <file> - discard changes in working directory</li>
<li>git remote -v - Shows you the URLs that Git has stored for the shortname to be used when reading and writing to that remote</li>
<li>git remote show [remote-name] - Inspecting a Remote</li>
<li>git remote rename - Removing and Renaming Remotes</li>
<li>git fetch - Fetching and pulling from your remotes</li>
<li>git push - Push origin master</li>
<li>git tag - Listing Your Tags</li>
<li>git tag -a - Creating an annotated tag</li>
<li>git show - See the tag data</li>
</ul>

<p>You can create a file listing patterns to match ignored files named .gitignore</p>
<p>The rules for the patterns you can put in the .gitignore file are as follows:</p>
<ul>
<li>Blank lines or lines starting with # are ignored.</li>
<li>Standard glob patterns work.</li>
<li>You can start patterns with a forward slash (/) to avoid recursivity.</li>
<li>You can end patterns with a forward slash (/) to specify a directory.</li>
<li>You can negate a pattern by starting it with an exclamation point (!)./<li>
</ul>
<p>Glob patterns are like simplified regular expressions that shells use. 
An asterisk (*) matches zero or more characters; 
[abc] matches any character inside the brackets (in this case a, b, or c); 
a question mark (?) matches a single character;
and brackets enclosing characters separated by a hyphen ([0-9]) matches any character between them (in this case 0 through 9). 
You can also use two asterisks to match nested directories; a/**/z would match a/z, a/b/z, a/b/c/z, and so on.</p>