---
ID: 797
post_title: Node.js
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/node-js/
published: true
post_date: 2019-03-21 04:11:04
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8">
    <title></title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h2>Node.js Introduction</h2>
    <p>Node.js allows you to use JavaScript to write server code.</p>
    <p>To use Node.js, you can download and install it from <a href="https://nodejs.org/en/">official
        Node.js Website</a>.</p>
    <p>To verify node is installed, try,</p>
    <pre>$ node --version&nbsp;
v8.10.0
$ </pre>
    <p>To handle a new web request, traditional servers may spin up a new
      process, or use a thread pool. Modern servers such as Nginx use only one
      thread to handle concurrent requests. Node.js&nbsp; is also a single
      thread server. At the heart of Node.js is an event loop. Node.js use V8
      JavaScript engine to execute JavsScript code.</p>
    <h2>Node.js Modules</h2>
    <p>Node.js has a file based module system. That is,</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Each file is its own module.</li>
      <li>Each file has access to the current module definition using the module
        variable.</li>
      <li>The export of the current module is determined by the module.exports
        variable.</li>
      <li>To import a module, use the globally available require function.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>File base/a.js</p>
    <pre lang="javascript">module.exports = function () {
  console.log('function in file a');
};
</pre>
    <p>File base/b.js</p>
    <pre lang="javascript">var a = require('./a');
a();</pre>
    <h3>Node.js Core Modules</h3>
    <ul>
      <li>path - provides useful string transformations common when working with
        the file system</li>
      <li>fs - provides access to the filesystem</li>
      <li>os - provides a few basic but vital operating-system related utility
        functions and properties.</li>
      <li>util - provides a number of useful general purpose functions</li>
    </ul>
    <h3>Node.js and HTTP</h3>
    <p>Node.js main core networking modules for creating web applications,</p>
    <ul>
      <li>net - TCP server and clients</li>
      <li>dgram - UDP / Datagram sockets</li>
      <li>http - HTTP stack</li>
      <li>https - TLS / SSL clients and servers</li>
    </ul>
    <p>The http module has a <code>createServer</code> method returns an object
      that you can use to respond to HTTP requests. To create a HTTP server in
      Node.js, write server.js,</p>
    <pre lang="javascript">var http = require('http');
var server = http.createServer(function (request, response) {
  console.log('requesting...');
  response.write('Hello, World!');
  response.end();
});
server.listen(9999);
console.log('Server up at http://127.0.0.1:9999/');
</pre>
    <p>Run server using <code>node server.js</code>, and check
      http://127.0.0.1:9999/ in your browser.</p>
    <h3>Node.js and Express</h3>
    <p>Express is a web application framework for Node.js.</p>
    <p>The express app can accept middleware using the ‘use’ function and can be
      registered with http.createServer.</p>
    <pre lang="javascript">var express = require('express'),
  http = require('http');
var app = express().use(function (req, res, next) {
 res.end('Hello Express!');
});
http.createServer(app).listen(9999);</pre>
    To use Express, you need install it first.
    <pre>sudo apt install node-express-generator</pre>
  </body>
</html>