---
ID: 842
post_title: SQL
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/sql/
published: true
post_date: 2019-03-27 15:26:05
---
<h2>SQL Introduction</h2>
<p>Database is used for persisting data. Relational database is a database divided into tables. 
Tables are logic units related to each other. Structured Query Language (SQL) is used 
on relational database. SQL is standardized by ANSI.</p>

<h3>SQL Session</h3>
<p>Database use a client/server model. Users interact with a relational database
using SQL commands in a SQL session. To connect to /disconnect from a database, use,</p>
<pre>CONNECT user@database
DISCONNECT</pre>

<h3>Record, Field, Column, NULL, and Key</h3>
<p>A row in Table is called a record; a field is a entity in a row; a column is all data in a table about a entity.
A NULL value is a blank value in a field. A primary key is a column whose value is unique and indexed.</p> 

<h3>Field Data Type</h3>
<ul>
<li>CHARACTER(n) - strings always have the same length</li>
<li>CHARACTER VARYING(n) - strings whose length is not constant for all data</li>
<li>BIT(n)</li>
<li>BIT VARYING(n)</li>
<li>DECIMAL(p,s) - numeric values that include the use of a decimal point</li>
<li>INTEGER - a numeric value that does not contain a decimal</li>
<li>SMALLINT</li>
<li>BIGINT</li>
<li>FLOAT(p,s) - decimal values whose precision and scale are variable lengths and virtually without limit. </li>
<li>DOUBLE PRECISION(p,s)</li>
<li>REAL(s)</li>
<li>DATE</li>
<li>TIME</li>
<li>DATETIME</li>
<li>TIMESTAMP</li>
<li>NULL - a missing value</li>
<li>BOOLEAN - a value of TRUE, FALSE, or NULL</li>
<li>user-defined type - a data type that is defined by the user</li>
</ul>

<h2>Data Definition Language</h2>
<p>CREATE TABLE</p>
<p>ALTER TABLE</p>
<pre>alter table table_name [modify] [column column_name][datatype|null not null]
[restrict|cascade]
[drop] [constraint constraint_name]
[add] [column] column definition
</pre>
<p>DROP TABLE</p>
<pre>drop table table_name [ restrict|cascade ]</pre>
CREATE INDEX
ALTER INDEX
DROP INDEX
CREATE VIEW
DROP VIEW

<h2>Data Manipulation Language</h2>
INSERT
<pre>INSERT INTO TABLE_NAME
VALUES (‘value1’, ‘value2’, [ NULL ] );</pre>
UPDATE
<pre>
update table_name
set column_name = ‘value’
[where condition];
</pre>
DELETE
<pre>delete from table_name
[where condition];
</pre>
<h2>Data Query Language</h2>
SELECT

<h2>Data Control Language</h2>
ALTER PASSWORD
GRANT
REVOKE
CREATE SYNONYM

<h2>Data administration commands</h2>
START AUDIT
STOP AUDIT

<h2>Transactional control commands</h2>
COMMIT — Saves database transactions
ROLLBACK — Undoes database transactions
SAVEPOINT — Creates points within groups of transactions in which to ROLLBACK
SET TRANSACTION — Places a name on a transaction