---
ID: 662
post_title: Sass
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/sass/
published: true
post_date: 2019-02-22 22:05:05
---
<h2>Sass Introduction</h2>
CSS is simple, but CSS files can get larger, more complex, and harder to maintain. That is why we need&nbsp; a preprocessor.

Sass stands for Syntactically Awesome Style Sheets. It add features that don't exist in CSS yet,&nbsp; such as variables, nesting, mixins, inheritance. SASS preprocess Sass file and save it as a normal CSS file.
<h3>Sass Installation</h3>
There are lots of Sass implementation. Dart Sass is the primary implementation of Sass. It gets new features before any other implementation.

You can go to <a href="https://sass-lang.com/dart-sass">Dart Sass</a> to download and install it.

Note below examples are executed on a Windows laptop. Dart Sass also supports Linux and MacOS.

Sass has two syntaxes. The most commonly used syntax is known as "SCSS" (for "Sassy CSS"), and is a superset of CSS3's syntax. This means that every valid CSS3 stylesheet is valid SCSS as well. SCSS files use the extension .scss. The second, older syntax is known as the indented syntax (or just ".sass").
<h2>Sass Basics</h2>
<h3>Sass Variables</h3>
Variables let you reuse information throughout CSS. Sass uses the $ symbol to define a variable. When a Sass file is processed, variables defined in it will be replaced by variable values and placed in CSS file.

Create a file named input.scss,
<pre lang="sass">$font-stack: sans-serif;
$primary-color: #fff;

body {
  font: $font-stack;
  color: $primary-color;
}</pre>
Compile it with Dart Sass compiler,
<pre>C:&gt;dart-sass\sass.bat input.sass output.css 
</pre>
The result is,
<pre>body {
  font: sans-serif;
  color: #fff;
}</pre>
<h3>Sass Nesting</h3>
We know that HTML has a nested hierarchy; while CSS, on the other hand, doesn't. Sass let you nest your CSS selectors in a same way as HTML. Note that overly nested Sass rules will result in over-qualified CSS that is hard to maintain and is bad practice.
<pre>nav {
  ul {
    list-style: none;
  }

  li { display: inline-block; }

  a {
    display: block;
  }
}</pre>
Above Sass code will compiled to,
<pre lang="">nav ul {
  list-style: none;
}
nav li {
  display: inline-block;
}
nav a {
  display: block;
}</pre>
<h3>Sass Partials and Import</h3>
You can create partial Sass files, then you can include in other Sass files. In this way, you can keep things easier to maintain. A partial is simply a Sass file named with a leading underscore. You might name it something like _partial.sass. The underscore lets Sass know that the file is a partial file and that it should not be generated into a CSS file.

Sass partials are used with the @import directive. CSS itself has an import option. The drawback is that each time you use @import in CSS it creates another HTTP request. Sass @import is different, Instead of requiring an HTTP request, Sass will take the imported file and combine it with the file you're importing into, so you have a single CSS file to the web browser.
<pre>@import partial</pre>
When you import a file you don't need to include the file extension .scss, also you do not write the underscore of the partial file.
<h3>Sass Mixins</h3>
A mixin lets you make groups of CSS declarations that you want to reuse. You can also pass in values to make your mixin more flexible. To create a mixin you use the @mixin directive. After you create your mixin, you can then use it as a CSS declaration starting with @include followed by the name of the mixin.
<pre>@mixin transform($property) {
  -webkit-transform: $property;
  -ms-transform: $property;
  transform: $property;
}

.box { @include transform(rotate(30deg)); }</pre>
<h3>Extend/Inheritance</h3>
This is one of the most useful features of Sass. Using @extend lets you share a set of CSS properties from one selector to another. It helps keep your Sass dry.
<pre>%message {
  border: 1px solid #ccc;
  padding: 10px;
  color: #fff;
}

.success {
  @extend %message;
  border-color: green;
}</pre>
<h3>Sass Operators</h3>
Doing math in CSS is very helpful. Sass has a handful of standard math operators like +, -, *, /, and %.
<pre>article {
  float: left;
  width: 600px / 960px * 100%;
}</pre>