---
ID: 509
post_title: HTTP
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/http/
published: true
post_date: 2019-02-19 22:29:25
---
<h2>HTTP Introduction</h2>
HTTP stands for <b>Hypertext Transfer Protocol</b>. HTTP is the network
protocol of the Web. HTTP is used to transmit resources. A resource is a piece of information that can be identified by a URL. Resources may be a file, or dynamically generated query result.
HTTP uses the client-server model: An HTTP client opens a connection and
sends a request to an HTTP server; the server then sends back a response,
containing the resource that was requested. After the response, the server
closes the connection. HTTP is a stateless protocol, that is, HTTP not
maintaining any connection information between transactions.
<h3>HTTP Format</h3>
The format of the request and response are similar; they are:
<pre>Initial line
Several headers
An optional message body  
</pre>
A request initial line has three parts: the method name, the path to the
resource, and the HTTP version:
<pre>GET /path/to/file/index.html HTTP/1.0
</pre>
<h3>HTTP Initial Line</h3>
A response initial line also has three parts: the HTTP version, a
response status code, and an reason phrase describing the status code:
<pre>HTTP/1.0 200 OK
</pre>
<h3>HTTP Status Code</h3>
The status code is computer-readable; the reason phrase is meant to be
human-readable. The status code is a three-digit integer, and the first
digit identifies the general category of response:
<ul>
 	<li><b>1xx</b> an informational message only</li>
 	<li><b>2xx</b> success</li>
 	<li><b>3xx</b> redirects the client to another URL</li>
 	<li><b>4xx</b> an error on the client</li>
 	<li><b>5xx</b> an error on the server</li>
</ul>
The most common status codes are:
<ul>
 	<li><b>200 OK: </b>The request succeeded, and the resource is returned in
the message body.</li>
 	<li><b>404 Not Found: </b>The requested resource doesn't exist.</li>
 	<li><b>500 Server Error: </b>An unexpected server error.</li>
</ul>
<h3>Header Lines</h3>
Header lines provide information about the request or response.
The header lines are one line per header, of the form "Header-Name:
values". The header name is not case-sensitive, but the values are. Values
are separated by commas. HTTP 1.0 defines 16 headers. HTTP 1.1 defines 46
headers, and the Host: header is required in requests. The User-Agent:
header identifies the program that's making the request. For example,
Firefox sends the header "User-agent:Mozilla/5.0".
These headers help troubleshooting problems. They also reveal information
about the user. You must balance the webmasters' logging needs against
your users' needs for privacy.
<h3>The Message Body</h3>
An HTTP message may have a body of data sent after the header lines. In a
response, this is where the requested resource is returned to the client,
or perhaps explanation if there's an error. In a request, this is where
user-entered data or uploaded files are sent to the server.
If an HTTP message includes a body, there are usually header lines in the
message that describe the body:
<ul>
 	<li>The <b><tt>Content-Type:</tt></b> header gives the MIME-type of the
data in the body, such as <b><tt>text/html</tt></b> or <b><tt>image/gif</tt></b>.</li>
 	<li>The <b><tt>Content-Length:</tt></b> header gives the number of bytes
in the body.</li>
</ul>
<h2>HTTP Methods</h2>
<h3>HTTP Get() Method</h3>
To retrieve the file at the URL
<pre>http://www.somehost.com/path/file.html
</pre>
first open a socket to the host <b>www.somehost.com</b>, port 80. Then,
send something like the following through the socket:
<pre>GET /path/file.html HTTP/1.0
User-Agent: HTTPTool/1.0
</pre>
The server should respond with something like the following, sent back
through the same socket:
<pre>HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1354

&lt;html&gt;
&lt;body&gt;
&lt;h1&gt;Happy New Millennium!&lt;/h1&gt;
  .
  .
  .
&lt;/body&gt;
&lt;/html&gt;
</pre>
After sending the response, the server closes the socket.
<h3>HTTP Head() Method</h3>
A HEAD request is just like a GET request, except it asks the server to
return the response headers only, and not the actual resource. This is
useful to check characteristics of a resource without actually downloading
it, thus saving bandwidth. Use HEAD when you don't actually need a file's
contents.
The response to a HEAD request must <i>never</i> contain a message body,
just the status line and headers.
<h3>The Post() Method</h3>
A POST request is used to send data to the server. A POST request is
different from a GET request in the following ways:
<ul>
 	<li>There's a block of data sent with the request, in the message body. There are usually extra headers to describe this message body, like <b>Content-Type:</b> and <b>Content-Length:</b>.</li>
 	<li>The <i>request URI</i> is not a resource to retrieve; it's usually a program to handle the data you're sending.</li>
 	<li>The HTTP response is normally program output, not a static file.</li>
</ul>
The most common use of POST is to submit HTML form data. In this
case, the Content-Type: header is usually application/x-www-form-urlencoded, and the Content-Length: header gives the length of the
URL-encoded form data. The server receives the message body, and decodes
it. Here's a typical form submission, using POST:
<pre>POST /path/script.cgi HTTP/1.0
User-Agent: HTTPTool/1.0
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 32

home=Cosby&amp;favorite+flavor=flies
</pre>
You can use a POST request to send whatever data you want, not just form
submissions. Just make sure the sender and the receiving program agree on
the format.
<h2> HTTP Proxies</h2>
An HTTP proxy is a program that acts as an intermediary between a
client and a server. It receives requests from clients, and forwards those
requests to the intended servers. The responses pass back through it in
the same way. Thus, a proxy has functions of both a client and a server.

Proxies are commonly used in firewalls.

When a client uses a proxy, it typically sends all requests to that
proxy, instead of to the servers in the URLs.
<h2>HTTP 1.1</h2>
HTTP 1.1 is a superset of HTTP&nbsp;1.0. Improvements include:
<ul>
 	<li>Multiple transactions over a single persistent connection.</li>
 	<li>Cache.</li>
 	<li>Chunked encoding, which allows a response to be sent before its
total length is known.</li>
 	<li>Multiple domains to be served from a single IP address.</li>
</ul>
<b>Host: Header</b>
HTTP 1.1 requests must have a Host: header. <a name="http1.1s2"></a>
<h3>The Date: Header</h3>
Caching is an important improvement in HTTP&nbsp;1.1. Servers timestamp
every response with a <b><tt>Date:</tt></b> header containing the current
time:
<pre>Date: Fri, 31 Dec 1999 23:59:59 GMT
</pre>
All time values in HTTP use Greenwich Mean Time.
<h2>HTTP Specification</h2>
<ul>
 	<li>HTTP 1.0 (RFC 1945)</li>
 	<li>HTTP 1.1 (RFC 2616)</li>
 	<li>HTTP 2 (RFC 7540)</li>
</ul>