---
ID: 848
post_title: AWK
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://cscourses.online/uncategorized/awk/
published: true
post_date: 2019-04-01 14:26:27
---
<h2>Awk Introduction</h2>

Awk syntax: awk [options] '[/pattern/] {action}' [input-file]
<ul>
<li><b>-F:</b> Specify field separator, <code>awk -F' ' '{print $1}' /etc/passwd</code></li>
<li><b>/pattern/:</b> Execute actions only for matched pattern, <code>awk '/root/ {print $1}' /etc/passwd</code></li>
<li><b>BEGIN:</b> BEGIN block is executed once at the start, <code>awk -F: 'BEGIN {print "-Begin-"} { print $1 }' /etc/passwd</code></li>
<li><b>END:</b> END block is executed once at the end, <code>awk -F: '{print $1} END {print "-End-"}' /etc/passwd</code></li>
</ul>

<h2>Awk built-in variables<h2>
<ul>
<li><b>FS</b> Input field separator. Specify the input-file field delimiter. Default is space.</li>
<li><b>OFS</b> Output field separator. Fields printed out are separated using this value. Default is space.</li>
<li><b>RS</b> Record separator. Specify the input file record delimiter. Default is new line.</li>
<li><b>ORS</b> Output record separator. Records printed out are separated using this value. Default is new line.</li>
<li<b>>NF</b> Number of fields in the current record.</li>
<li><b>NR</b> Number of the record. Indicates the total number of records processed at that point.</li>
<li><b>FILENAME</b> Contains current input-file that is getting processed. Set to “-” for stdin/pipe.</li>
</ul>
<code>
-F ', ' ' { print NR " " $1; }'
</code>

<h2>Awk operators</h2>
<ul>
<li><b>String:</b> Use an empty space for string concatenation. <code>str3 = str1 str2</code></li>
<li><b>Assignment:</b> x = x + 2 is same as x += 2. Similarly use -=, *=, /=, and %=</li>
<li><b>Conditional:</b> >, >=, <, <=, ==, !=, && (for and), || (for or)</li>
<li><b>Regex:</b> ~ for match operator. ~= for “no match operator”</li>
</ul>

<h2>Awk conditional statements and loops</h2>
<ul>
<li><b>if</b> if (conditional-expression) action<li>
<li><b>if else</b> if (conditional-expression) action1 else action2<li>
<li><b>while</b> while (condition) action<li>
<li><b>do while</b> do action while (condition)<li>
<li><b>for</b> for (initialization; condition; increment/decrement) action<li>
<li><b>break</b> Jump out of the innermost looping that encloses it.<li>
<li><b>continue</b> Skip over the rest of the loop body and start the cycle again.<li>
<li><b>exit</b> Stop executing the script and exit<li>
</ul>


<h2>Awk associative arrays</h2>
<ul>
<li><b>Assign element:</b> arrayname[string]=value e.g. <code>item[105]="Laser Printer"</code></li>
<li><b>Refer element:</b> variable=arrayname[string] e.g. <code>myvar=item[105]</code></li>
<li><b>Delete element:</b> delete arrayname[index] e.g. <code>delete item[105]</code></li>
<li><b>Browse elements:</b> for (var in arrayname) actions e.g. <code>for (x in item) print item[x]</code></li>
<li><b>asort</b> asort function sorts the array values and stores them in indexes from 1 through n. Where n is the total number of elements in the array.</li>
<li><b>asorti</b> Just like sorting array values, you can take all the array indexes, sort them, and store it in a new array.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Awk printf command</h2>
<ul>
<li><b>Format specifier</b>: s = String, e = Exponential floating point, o = Octal, c = Single character, f = Fixed floating point, x = Hexadecimal, d = Decimal, g = Use either e or f, % = Percentage symbol,</li>
<li><b>Special character</b>: \n = Newline, \t = Tab, \v = Vertical tab, \b = Backspace, \r = Carriage return, \f = Form feed,</li>
<li><b>Number</b>: Fixed Width. Number immediately after %. e.g. "%5s". By default it is right justified</li>
<li><b>-</b>: Fixed Width (left justified). Minus symbol immediately after % and before number. e.g. "%-5s"</li>
<li><b>0</b>: Leading zeros. Add a 0 (zero) before the number. e.g. "%05s"</li>
</ul>

<h2>Awk Functions</h2>
<ul>
<li><b>index(str1, str2)</b> Give location of str2 in str1</li>
<li><b>length(str1)</b> Length of the string</li>
<li><b>split(str, arr, sep)</b> Splits the string (str) using separator (sep) and stores output in the array (arr)</li>
<li><b>substr(str, loc, len)</b> Extracts number of characters (len) from string (str), starting at location (loc)</li>
<li><b>sub(str1, str2, var)</b> In the input string (var), str1 is replaced with str2, and output is stored back in var</li>
<li><b>gsub(str1, str2, var)</b> Same as sub, but global. It does multiple substitutions on the same input string (var).</li>
<li><b>match(str1,str2)</b> Returns positive number when str1 is present in str2.</li>
<li><b>toupper(str)</b> Converts str to upper-case</li>
<li><b>tolower(str)</b> Converts str to lower-case</li>
<li><b>Numeric</b> init(n), log(n), sqrt(n), sin(n), cos(n), atan2(m,n)</li>
<li><b>rand()</b> - random number between 0 and 1</li>
<li><b>srand(n)</b> – generate random number from n</li>
</ul>

<h2>Additional Awk Commands</h1>
<ul>
<li><b>print</b> Print a record, or field, or value</li>
<li><b>system(cmd)</b> Execute the Unix OS command (cmd) from awk</li>
<li><b>systime()</b> Current time in epoch time. </li>
<li><b>getline</b> Read the next line from the input-file. Sets $0, NF, NR, FNR</li>
<li><b>getline var</b> Read next line from the input-file and store it in variable (var). </li>
<li><b>getline < file</b> Read next line from another input-file.</li>
<li><b>getline var < file</b> Read next line from another input-file and store it in variable (var).</li>
<li><b>cmd | getline</b> Execute Unix OS command (cmd) and store output in $0</li>
</ul>