---
ID: 188
post_title: CSS
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/css/
published: true
post_date: 2019-02-12 13:33:39
---
<h2>CSS Introduction</h2>
<p>CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) is a language to specify how HTML elements should be displayed.</p>
<p>CSS defines a set of rules associated with HTML elements. CSS rules contain two parts: selectors and declarations. Selectors indicate which element or a set of elements the rules apply to. Declarations specify how the HTML elements are displayed. Declarations also have two parts, property names, and values.</p>
<p>Below is an HTML page which has CSS code embedded,<p>
<pre lan="html">&lt;!DOCTYPE html&gt;
&lt;html&gt;
  &lt;head&gt;
    &lt;style&gt;
      p1, p2, p3 { color: red }
    &lt;/style&gt;
  &lt;/head&gt;
  &lt;body&gt;
    &lt;h1&gt;Paragraph 1&lt;/h1&gt;
    &lt;h2&gt;Paragraph 2&lt;/h2&gt;
    &lt;h3&gt;Paragraph 3&lt;/h3&gt;
  &lt;/body&gt;
&lt;/html&gt;
</pre>
<p>There are two ways to use CSS in HTML pages. One is internal CSS, the other is external CSS.</p>
<h3>Internal CSS</h3>
<p>The &lt;style&gt; tag is used to embed CSS code directly in HTML page. The tag is in &lt;head&gt; tag. It may has one attribute 'type', which defines the type of document; the value is "text/css".</p>
<pre lan="html">&lt;!DOCTYPE html&gt;
&lt;html&gt;
  &lt;head&gt;
    &lt;style type = "text/css"&gt;
      body {  background-color: yellow }
      h1 { color: red }
    &lt;/style&gt;
  &lt;/head&gt;
  &lt;body&gt;
    &lt;h1&gt;Introduction&lt;/h1&gt;
    &lt;p&gt;CSS is used to specify the HTML page how to display.&lt;/p&gt;
  &lt;/body&gt;
&lt;/html&gt;
</pre>
<h3>External CSS</h3>
<p>The &lt;link&gt; tag is used by HTML file to reference an external CSS file. The tag is an empty tag located in &lt;head&gt; tag.</p>
<p>It has three attributes:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>href:</b> The path to the CSS file.</li>
<li><b>type:</b> The type of document, here is "text/css".</li>
<li><b>rel:</b> The relationship between the HTML page and the CSS file, here is "stylesheet".</li>
</ul>
<p>Below is the code shows how to use external CSS. Note the code are in two files, one HTML file, and one CSS file. Both files should be put in the same directory if you want to test them on your PC offline.<p>
<p>HTML file:</p>
<pre lan="html">
&lt;!DOCTYPE html&gt;
&lt;html&gt;
  &lt;head&gt;
    &lt;link href = "styles.css" type = "text/css" rel = "stylesheet"&gt;
  &lt;/head&gt;
  &lt;body&gt;
    &lt;h1&gt;Introduction&lt;/h1&gt;
    &lt;p&gt;CSS is used to specify the HTML page how to display.&lt;/p&gt;
  &lt;/body&gt;
&lt;/html&gt;
</pre>
<p>CSS file:</p>
<pre lan="css">body {  background-color: yellow }
h1 { color: red }
</pre>
<p>External CSS is better than internal CSS because using external CSS, you can put your CSS files in a separate place and can share them with different HTML pages. Write reusable code is important when your project gets big. If you find something need fix, you only need to fix one place, all HTML pages take effects. When the pages are viewed by users in their browsers, those CSS files only need to download once.</p>
<p>Internal CSS also has some use cases. If your project is tiny, you do not bother to separate CSS rules from HTML pages. If you have only a few CSS rules which only used by one page, you do not want to put them in a shared CSS file.</p>
<h3>CSS Selectors</h3>
<p>From above examples, we know that, CSS is basically find some HTML elements, and apply some attribute-value rules to them. In this part, we will discuss different ways CSS find HTML elements.</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Universal Selector:</b> It targets all elements on the HTML page, * { }</li>
<li><b>Type selector:</b> It targets elements by type, such as h1 { }, p { }</li>
<li><b>Class selector:</b> It targets elements by matching class attributes, such as .box {} and h1.box { }, the class name is prefixed with a dot symbol</li>
<li><b>Id selector:</b> It targets elements by matching id attributes, such as #box {}</li>
<li><b>Child selector:</b> It matches all children elements, such as h1 &gt; p {}</li>
<li><b>Descendent selector:</b> It matches all descendent elements, such as h1 p {}. The different between the child selector and the descendent selector is descendent maybe is not the direct child.</li>
<li><b>Adjacent sibling selector:</b> It matches the element which is the next sibling, such as h1 + a {}</li>
<li><b>General sibling selector:</b> It matches elements which are sibling, not necessary the next one, such as h1 ~ a {}. The difference between the general sibling selector and the adjacent sibling selector is that general sibling selector can match several siblings.</li>
<li><b>Existence selector:</b> [], matches a specific attribute. For example, p[class].</li>
<li><b>Equality selector:</b> [=], matches a specific attribute with a specific value. For example, p[class="value"].</li>
<li><b>Space selector:</b> [~=], matches a specific attribute whose value appears in a space separated list of words. For example, p[class~="value"].</li>
<li><b>Prefix selector:</b> [^=], matches a specific attribute whose value begins with a specific string. For example, p[attr^="v"].</li>
<li><b>Substring selector:</b> [*=], matches a specific attribute whose value contains a specific substring. For example, p[attr*="v"].</li>
<li><b>Suffix selector:</b> [$=], matches a specific attribute whose value ends with a specific string. For example, p[attr$="v"].</li>
</ul>
<h3>CSS pseudo-elements and pseudo-classes.</h3>
<p>A pseudo-element acts like an extra element is in the code. For example the :first-letter and :first-line pseudo elements, it is as if there is an extra element around the first letter or the first line which can have its own styles applied.</p>
<pre lan="css">p.intro:first-letter { font-size: 200%;}
p.intro:first-line { font-weight: bold;}
</pre>
<p>A pseudo-class acts like an extra value for a class attribute. For example the :visited pseudo-class, it allows you to have different styles for links that have been visited; the :hover pseudo-class allows you to style elements differently when a user hovers over them.</p>
<pre lan="css">a:link { color: deeppink;}
a:visited {color: black;}
a:hover {color: deeppink; }
</pre>
<h3>CSS Cascade</h3>
<p>If two CSS rules have overlapped selectors, then the second one will overwrite the first one. For example, p { color : red; } then p { color : blue }, the first one will be overwritten and the color of p will be blue.</p>
<p>If one CSS rule is more specific than another CSS rule, then the more specific part will take precedence.  For example, p.conclusion { color: red; } then p { color : blue},  then all paragraphs are blue except those have class attribute named conclusion.</p>
<p>CSS also provide a hack let you make sure your rule is not overwritten, you can put !important after your attribute, such as p { color: blue !important }.</p>
<h3>CSS Inheritance</h3>
<p>Some attributes are inherited in CSS, such as font. It a good feature since if you specify the font for the body, then you will find all descendant elements, such as p, or h2, use the same font. Some attributes are not inherited, such as background-color.</p>
<p>Sometimes you may want a CSS rule to inherit from its parent, you can use inherit to make it work, such as p #conclusion { color: inherit }</p>
<h3>CSS Versions</h3>
<p>Like many other computer languages, CSS is changing fast. Now it has three versions, CSS1 created in 1996, CSS2 created in 1998, and now people are working on CSS3.</p>
<p>It is worth note that different brands of browsers, or different versions of a browser, have different support to CSS. Some versions of some browsers show some CSS rules in a different way, so when you finished your HTML CSS code, you have to test them in different browsers to make sure they will not surprise you. If you find some CSS bugs, you can use a search engine to find a solution for most bugs. It is not easy to write robust CSS code. Keep in mind your pages are viewed by all kinds of different browsers.</p>
<h3>CSS Comments</h3>
<p>You may add comments in your CSS code. Anything between /* and */ are comments in CSS code. Comments are useful especially when you read code written by other people or even by yourself a long time ago.</p>
<h2>CSS Colors</h2>
<h3>CSS color and background-color</h3>
<p>The color property is used to specify the text color. If not specified, the default color is black.</p>
<p>The background-color is used to specify the background color. If not specified, the default color is transparent. The default color of the browser window is white, so if the background color of an HTML element is not specified, it shows white.</p>
<p>There are four ways to specify text colors or background colors:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>RGB Values:</b> How much red, green, and blue are used, such as rgb(100, 100, 100)</li>
<li><b>HEX Values:</b> Six digits HEX values to specify how much red, green and blue, preceded by a # symbol, such as #aabbcc</li>
<li><b>Color Names:</b> More than 100 color to select, such as red, blue</li>
<li><b>HSL:</b> Defined in CSS3. It has 3 values, hue, saturation, lightness, such as hsl(120,100%,50%)</li>
</ul>
<h3>CSS opacity and rgba</h3>
<p>CSS use opacity to specify a HTML element, such as p { background-color: rbg(0, 0, 0); opacity: 0.2 }</p>
<p>Compared with CSS2 rgb, CSS3 rgba added a new value, called alpha, to specify the opacity of HTML elements,  such as p { background-color: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2); }</p>
<p>Compared with CSS3 hls, CSS3 hlsa add a new value, called alpha, to specify the opacity of HTML elements, such as p { background-color: hlsa(0, 0, 0, 0.2); }</p>
<h2>CSS Texts</h2>
<h3>CSS font-family</h3>
<p>CSS use font-family to specify typeface, or font. You can use several typefaces, which should be separated by commas. If a typeface name is more than one word, it should be put in double quotes, such as p { font-family: "Courier New", Monospace; }</p>
<p>On top level, fonts can be divided into three categories, serif, sans-serif, and monospace.</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Serif</b> has more details and is good for high resolution such as printed document;</li>
<li><b>Sans-serif</b> has fewer details and is fit for screen resolution;</li>
<li><b>Monospace</b> requires every letter has the same width, and is commonly used for code.</li>
</ul>
<p>Browsers are supposed to support at least one typeface from each of the groups above. For this reason, it is common to add the generic font name after your preferred typefaces.</p>
<pre lang="html">&lt;!DOCTYPE html&gt;
&lt;html&gt;
  &lt;head&gt;
    &lt;style type="text/css"&gt;
      body { font-family: Times, serif;}
      h1, h2 { font-family: Arial, sans-serif;}
    &lt;/style&gt;
  &lt;/head&gt;
  &lt;body&gt;
    &lt;h1&gt;Heading 1&lt;/h1&gt;
    &lt;p&gt;Paragraph 1&lt;/p&gt;
  &lt;/body&gt;
&lt;/html&gt;
</pre>
<h3>CSS font-size</h3>
<p>The font-size property enables you to specify a size for the font. There are several ways to specify the size of a font. The most common are:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Pixels (px): </b>Pixels allow precise control over how much space the text takes up. The number of pixels is followed by the letters px.</li>
<li><b>Points (pt): </b>Points are traditionally used in print media. One point is equal to 1/72 of an inch. Points are much like pixels, in that they are fixed-size units and cannot scale in size. You can use pt for point sizes instead of px for pixels, but you should only do this when creating style sheets for printer-friendly versions of pages.</li>
<li><b>Percentages: </b>The default size of text in browsers is 16px. So a size of 50% is equivalent of 8px, and 200% would be 32px. If you create a rule of element to be 200% of the default size, and then another rule of element inside the element to be 50% size, it will be 16px (50% of 200% of default font size).</li>
<li><b>Ems: </b>An em is equivalent to the width of a letter m of the current font-size, for instance, if the font-size of the document is 12pt, 1em is equal to 12pt.</li>
</ul>
<pre lang="css">body {font-family: Arial, Verdana, sans-serif; font-size: 12px;}
h1 {font-size: 200%;}
h2 {font-size: 1.3em;}
h3 {font-size: 12pt;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS @font-face</h3>
<p>@font-face allows you to use a font by specify a path to a copy of the font to downloaded it if it is not on the user's machine. It is important that the license for the font permits it to be used in this way.</p>
<ul>
<li><b>font-family:</b> This specifies the name of the font. This name can be used in the rest of the CSS file.</li>
<li><b>src:</b> This specifies the path to the font. You may specify paths to a few different versions of the font.</li>
<li><b>format: </b>This specifies the format that the font is supplied in.</li>
</ul>
<pre lang="css">@font-face { font-family: 'LargeFont'; src: url('fonts/large.eot');}
</pre>
<h3>CSS font-weight</h3>
<p>The font-weight property allows you to create bold text.</p>
<p>It has two values:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Normal: </b>Text appears at a normal weight.</li>
<li><b>Bold: </b>Text appears bold.</li>
</ul>
<pre lang="css">p { font-weight: bold;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS font-style</h3>
<p>The font-style property allows you to create italic text.</p>
<p>It has three values:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Normal: </b>Text appears in a normal style.</li>
<li><b>Italic: </b>Text appears italic.</li>
<li><b>Oblique: </b>Text appears oblique.</li>
</ul>
<pre lang="css">p { font-style: italic;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS text-transform</h3>
<p>The text-transform property changes the case of text.</p>
<p>It has three values:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Uppercase: </b>Text appears uppercase.</li>
<li><b>Lowercase: </b>Text appears lowercase.</li>
<li><b>Capitalize: </b>The first letter of each word to appear capitalized.</li>
</ul>
<pre lang="css">p { text-transform: lowercase;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS text-decoration</h3>
<p>The text-decoration property specifies the following values:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>None: </b>This removes any decoration already applied to the text.</li>
<li><b>Underline: </b>This adds a line underneath the text.</li>
<li><b>Overline: </b>This adds a line over the top of the text.</li>
<li><b>Line-through: </b>This adds a line through words.</li>
<li><b>Blink.</b> This animates the text to make it flash on and off.</li>
</ul>
<pre lang="css">p { text-decoration: none;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS line-height</h3>
<p>The line-height property sets the height of text lines. Increasing line-height can make text easier to read. The vertical space between lines should be larger than the space between each word as this helps the eye move along the line instead of down them. Because users can adjust the default font size in the browser, the value of the line-height is best given in ems, not pixels.</p>
<pre lang="css">p { line-height: 1.5em;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS letter-spacing and word-spacing</h3>
<p>The letter-spacing property controls the space between each letter. The word-spacing property controls the gap between words. These values should be given in ems, and it will be added on top of the default value specified by the font. The default gap between words is set by the typeface (often around 0.25em).</p>
<pre lang="css">h1 { letter-spacing: 0.2em;}
p { word-spacing: 1em;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS text-align</h3>
<p>The text-align property controls the alignment of text.</p>
<p>The property can take one of four values:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Left: </b>Text is left-aligned.</li>
<li><b>Right: </b>Text is right-aligned.</li>
<li><b>Center: </b>Text is centered.</li>
<li><b>Justify: </b>Text takes up the full width of the containing box.</li>
</ul>
<pre lang="css">h1 { text-align: left;}
p { text-align: justify;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS vertical-align</h3>
<p>The vertical-align property is used with inline elements such as &lt;img&gt;, &lt;em&gt;, or &lt;strong&gt; elements. The values it can take are: baseline, sub, super, top, text-top, middle, bottom, and text-bottom. It can also take a length (usually specified in pixels or ems) or a percentage of the line height.</p>
<pre lang="css">#a-tag { vertical-align: text-top;}
#b-tag { vertical-align: middle;}
#c-tag { vertical-align: bottom;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS text-indent</h3>
<p>The text-indent property indents the first line of text within an element, usually given in pixels or ems. It can take a negative value, which means it can be used to push text off the browser window.</p>
<pre lang="css">p { text-indent: 20px;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS text-shadow</h3>
<p>The text-shadow property creates a drop shadow, which is a dark version of the word just behind it and slightly offset, or creates an embossed effect, which is slightly lighter than the text. The value of this property takes three lengths and color.</p>
<ul>
<li><b>The first length</b> indicates how far to the left or right the shadow should fall.</li>
<li><b>The second value</b> indicates the distance to the top or bottom that the shadow should fall.</li>
<li><b>The third value</b> is optional and specifies the amount of blur that should be applied to the drop shadow.</li>
<li><b>The fourth value</b> is the color of the drop shadow.</li>
</ul>
<pre lang="css">p.one { text-shadow: 2px 2px 5px #000000;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS first-letter and first-line</h3>
<p>The first-letter and first-line specify different values for the first letter or first line of text inside an element. They are known as pseudo-elements. The pseudo-element is at the end of the selector and followed by the declarations normally for any other element.</p>
<pre lang="css">p.intro:first-letter { font-size: 200%;}
p.intro:first-line { font-weight: bold;}
</pre>
<h2>CSS Links</h2>
<p>Browsers show links in blue with an underline by default, and they will change the color of links to show which pages have been visited.</p>
<p>In CSS, there are two pseudo-classes that allow you to set different styles for links.</p>
<h3>CSS link and visited</h3>
<p>The link sets styles for links that have not yet been visited.</p>
<p>The visited set styles for links that have been clicked on.</p>
<pre lang="css">a:link { color: deeppink; }
a:visited { color: black;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS hover, active and focus</h3>
<p>The hover, active, and focus are three pseudo-classes that allow you to change the appearance of elements when a user is interacting with them.</p>
<p>The hover is used to change the appearance of links and buttons when a user hovers over them with a mouse. Such events do not work on devices that use touch screens because the screen is not able to tell hovering.</p>
<p>The active is used to make a button or link feel more like it is being pressed by changing the style or position of the element slightly when they are being activated by a user.</p>
<p>The focus is used when an element has focus. Focus occurs when a browser discovers that you are ready to interact with an element on the page.</p>
<p>When pseudo-classes are used, they should appear in this order: link, visited, hover, focus, active.</p>
<pre lang="css">a:hover {color: deeppink; }
a:active {color: darkcyan;}
</pre>
<h2>CSS Blocks</h2>
<h3>CSS width and height</h3>
<p>By default a box is sized to hold its contents. The height and width properties set dimensions for blocks. The size of a box are specified by pixels, percentages, or ems.</p>
<p>Pixels allow accurate control of size; Percentages set the size of the box according to the size of the browser window or the size of the containing box. Ems set the size of the box based on the size of text within it.</p>
<p>In order to center a block on the page, you need to set a block width, otherwise, it takes up the full width of the page.</p>
<pre lang="css">div { height: 200px; width: 200px; background-color: #aabbcc;}
p { height: 75%; width: 75%; background-color: #112233;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS min-width and max-width</h3>
<p>The min-width property specifies the smallest size a block should displayed when the browser window is narrow, and the max-width property specifies the maximum width a block should displayed when the browser window is wide.</p>
<pre lang="css">td {min-width: 250px; max-width: 300px; }
</pre>
<h3>CSS min-height and max-height</h3>
<p>The min-height property specifies the smallest size a block should display when the browser window is narrow, and the max-height property specifies the maximum width a block should display when the browser window is wide.</p>
<pre lang="css">td {min-height: 250px; max-height: 300px; }
</pre>
<h3>CSS overflow</h3>
<p>The overflow property defines what to do if the content contained within a block is larger than the block itself. It has two values:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Hidden: </b>It hides any extra content that does not fit in the block.</li>
<li><b>Scroll: </b>It adds a scrollbar to the block so that users can scroll to see the missing content.</li>
</ul>
<pre lang="css">p.one {overflow: hidden;}
p.two {overflow: scroll;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS Borders</h3>
<p>The border of a block separates the edge of one box from another.</p>
<h4>CSS border-width</h4>
<p>The border-width controls the width of a border. The value is either in pixels or one of the following values: thin, medium, or thick. You can use four separate properties: border-top-width, border-right-width, border-bottom-width, or border-left-width.</p>
<p>You can specify four border widths in clockwise order: top, right, bottom, left in one property.</p>
<pre lang="css">p.one { border-width: 2px;}
p.two { border-width: thick;}
p.three { border-width: 1px 2px 3px 4px;}
</pre>
<h4>CSS border-style</h4>
<p>The border-style controls the style of a border. This property can take the following values:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Solid: </b>a single solid line</li>
<li><b>Dotted: </b>a series of square dots</li>
<li><b>Dashed: </b>a series of short lines</li>
<li><b>Double: </b>two solid lines</li>
<li><b>Groove: </b>It appears to be carved into the page</li>
<li><b>Ridge: </b>It appears to stick out from the page</li>
<li><b>Inset: </b>It appears embedded into the page</li>
<li><b>Outset: </b>It looks like it is coming out of the screen</li>
<li><b>Hidden/none: </b>No border is shown</li>
</ul>
<p>You can specify four border styles: border-top-style, border-left-style, border-right-style, or border-bottom-style.</p>
<h4>CSS border-color</h4>
<p>The color of a border can use either RGB values, hex codes or CSS color names.</p>
<p>You can specify four border colors: border-top-color, border-right-color, border-bottom-color, or border-left-color.</p>
<p>You can also specify four border colors in clockwise order: top, right, bottom, left in the one property:</p>
<pre lang="css">border-color: blue green blue green;
</pre>
<h4>CSS border</h4>
<p>The border property controls the width, style and color of a border in one property.</p>
<pre lang="css">div { border: 3px dotted #aabbcc;}
</pre>
<h4>CSS border-image</h4>
<p>The border-image property applies an image to the border of a block.</p>
<p>This property requires three parts of information:</p>
<ul>
<li>The URL of the image</li>
<li>Where to slice the image</li>
<li>What to do with the straight edges;</li>
</ul>
<p>The possible values are:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Stretch: </b>Stretches the image</li>
<li><b>Repeat: </b>Repeats the image</li>
<li><b>Round: </b>Likes repeat but if the tiles do not fit exactly, scales the tile image so they will.</li>
</ul>
<p>The block must also have a border width for the image to be shown.</p>
<p>The -moz-border-image and -webkit-border-image properties are not in the CSS specification but help earlier versions of Chrome, Firefox, and Safari display this effect.</p>
<pre lang="css">p {
  border-width: 15px;
  border-style: solid;
  border-image: url("bg.gif") 20 20 20 20  round;
  -moz-border-image: url("bg.gif") 20 20 20 20  round;
  -webkit-border-image: url("bg.gif") 20 20 20 20  round;
}
</pre>
<h4>CSS border-radius</h4>
<p>The border-radius creates rounded corners on any box. The value indicates the size of the radius in pixels.</p>
<p>The -moz-border-radius and -webkit-border-radius properties are used in some versions of Chrome, Firefox, and Safari to offer early support for this style.</p>
<p>You can specify individual values for each corner: border-top-right-radius, border-bottom-right-radius, border-bottom-left-radius, and border-top-left-radius.</p>
<p>You can also specify four properties in clockwise order: top, right, bottom, left.</p>
<pre lang="css">p {
  border: 5px solid #aabbcc;
  border-radius: 10px;
  -moz-border-radius: 10px;
  -webkit-border-radius: 10px;
}
</pre>
<p>You can specify different distances for the horizontal and the vertical parts of the rounded corners.</p>
<pre lang="css">p {
  border: 5px solid #aabbcc;
  border-radius: 10px 20px;
}
</pre>
<h3>CSS padding</h3>
<p>Padding is the space between the border of a block and any content within it. The padding is helpful in adding space between items on the page.</p>
<p>The padding value is in pixels. If a percentage is used, the padding is a percentage of the browser window. If a width is specified for a box, padding is added onto the width of the box.</p>
<p>You can specify different values for each side of a block using: padding-top, padding-right, padding-bottom, o padding-left.</p>
<p>You can specify values in clockwise order: top, right, bottom, left.</p>
<pre lang="css">p { padding: 10px;}
p { padding: 10px 5px 3px 1px;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS margin</h3>
<p>Margins sit outside the edge of the border. The margin property is helpful in adding space between items on the page.</p>
<p>The margin value is commonly given in pixels, percentages or ems.</p>
<p>You can specify four margin values for a block: margin-top, margin-right, margin-bottom, or margin-left. You can specify four values in clockwise order: top, right, bottom, left.</p>
<p>If one block on top of another, margins are collapsed, which means the larger of the two margins will be used and the smaller will be disregarded. If the width of a box is specified then the margin is added to the width of the box.</p>
<p>Setting the left and right margins to auto will make the browser put an equal gap on each side of the block. This centers the box on the page.</p>
<pre lang="css">p { margin: 1px 2px 3px 4px; }
</pre>
<h3>CSS visibility</h3>
<p>The visibility hides boxes from users but leaves a space for the element.</p>
<p>This property values:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Hidden: </b>This hides the element.</li>
<li><b>Visible: </b>This shows the element.</li>
</ul>
<h3>CSS box-shadow</h3>
<p>The box-shadow adds a drop shadow around a box.</p>
<p>It uses below values and a color:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Horizontal offset: </b>Negative values position the shadow to the left of the box.</li>
<li><b>Vertical offset: </b>Negative values position the shadow to the top of the box.</li>
<li><b>Blur distance: </b>If omitted, the shadow is a solid line like a border.</li>
<li><b>Spread of shadow: </b>If used, a positive value will cause the shadow to expand in all directions, and a negative value will make it contract.</li>
</ul>
<p>The inset keyword can also be used before these values to create an inner-shadow.</p>
<p>Chrome, Firefox, and Safari supports -moz-box-shadow and -webkit-box-shadow properties.</p>
<pre lang="css">p.one {
  -moz-box-shadow: -5px -5px #aabbcc;
  -webkit-box-shadow: -5px -5px #aabbcc;
  box-shadow: -5px -5px #aabbcc;
}
</pre>
<h3>CSS display</h3>
<p>The display turns an inline element into a block-level element or vice versa, and can hide an element from the page.</p> 
<p>The values are:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Inline: </b>A block-level element acts like an inline element.</li>
<li><b>Block: </b>An inline element acts like a block-level element.</li>
<li><b>Inline-block: </b>A block-level element to flow like an inline element, while retaining other features of a block-level element.</li>
<li><b>None: </b>This hides an element from the page.</li>
</ul>
<pre lang="css">li { display: inline; }
li.not_ready { display: none;}
</pre>
<h2>CSS Lists</h2>
<h3>CSS list-style-type</h3>
<p>The list-style-type allows you to control the shape or style of the &lt;ol&gt;, &lt;ul&gt;, and &lt;li&gt; elements.</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Unordered Lists: </b>You can use the following values: none, disc, circle, square</li>
<li><b>Ordered Lists: </b>You can use the following values: decimal, decimal-leading-zero, lower-alpha, upper-alpha, lower-roman, upper-roman</li>
</ul>
<pre lang="css">ol { list-style-type: lower-roman;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS list-style-image</h3>
<p>The list-style-image uses an image as a bullet point.</p>
<pre lang="css">ul { list-style-image: url("list.png");}
</pre>
<h3>CSS list-style-position</h3>
<p>The list-style-position property indicates whether the marker should appear on the inside or the outside of the box containing the main points.</p>
<p>It has two values:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Outside: </b>The marker sits to the left of the block of text.</li>
<li><b>Inside: </b>The marker sits inside the box of text.</li>
</ul>
<pre lang="css">ul { list-style-position: inside;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS list-style</h3>
<p>The list-style allows you to express the markers' style, image and position properties in any order.</p>
<pre lang="css">ul { list-style: inside circle; }
</pre>
<h2>CSS Tables</h2>
<h3>CSS empty-cells</h3>
<p>The empty-cells property specifies whether or not their borders should be shown.</p>
<p>It can take one of three values:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Show: </b>This shows the borders of any empty cells.</li>
<li><b>Hide: </b>This hides the borders of any empty cells.</li>
<li><b>Inherit: </b>If you have one table nested inside another, the inherent value instructs the table cells to obey the rules of the containing table.</li>
</ul>
<pre lang="css">table.two { empty-cells: hide;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS border-spacing and border-collapse</h3>
<p>The border-spacing property allows you to control the distance between adjacent cells. The value is usually specified in pixels. Possible values are:</p>
<ul>
<li>Collapse. Borders are collapsed into a single border where possible.</li>
<li>Separate. Borders are detached from each other.</li>
</ul>
<pre lang="css">table { border-spacing: 5px 10px;}
</pre>
<h2>CSS Mouse Cursors</h2>
<h3>CSS cursor</h3>
<p>The cursor controls the type of mouse cursor that should be displayed to users.</p>
<p>It uses values: auto, crosshair, default, pointer, move, text, wait, help, and url("cursor.gif").</p>
<pre lang="css">a { cursor: move;}
</pre>
<h2>CSS Positioning</h2>
<p>HTML elements are either a block element or an inline element.</p>
<p>Block element starts on a new line and acts as the main building blocks of any layout, while inline element flows between surrounding text.</p>
<p>If one block element is inside another block element then the outside element is known as the containing. It is common to group a number of elements together inside a &lt;div&gt; element.</p>
<h3>CSS position</h3>
<p>CSS has three positioning schemes to control the layout of a page:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Static: </b>This specifies the normal flow. Every block element appears on a new line. This is the default behavior.</li>
<li><b>Relative: </b>This specifies the relative positioning. This moves an element from the position it would be it to the top, right, bottom, or left of where it would have been placed in normal flow.</li>
<li><b>Absolute: </b>This specifies the absolute positioning. This positions the element in relation to its containing element.</li>
<li><b>Fixed: </b>Fixed positioning is a type of absolute positioning that puts the element in relation to the browser window. Therefore, when a user scrolls down the page, it stays in the exact same place.</li>
</ul>
<p>The box offset properties tell the browser how far from the top or bottom and left or right the block should be placed.</p>
<p>When elements from normal flow are moved, they can overlap. The z-index property controls which block appears on top.</p>
<pre lang="css">p { position: relative; top: 10px; left: 100px;}
h1 { position: absolute; top: 0px; left: 200px; width: 50px;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS z-index</h3>
<p>When you use relative, fixed, or absolute positioning, blocks can overlap. If blocks overlap, the elements that appear later sit on top of those that are earlier in the page. If you want to control which element sits on top, you can use the z-index property.</p>
<h3>CSS float</h3>
<p>The float property place an element as far to the left or right of the containing element as possible. Anything else that sits inside the containing element will flow around the element that is floated.</p>
<p>The float property is commonly used to put blocks next to each other.</p>
<pre lang="css">h1 { float: right; width: 200px; }
</pre>
<p>In web pages, multiple columns are achieved by using &lt;div&gt; elements to represent each column. The following three CSS properties are used to position the columns next to each other: width, which sets the width of the columns; float, which positions the columns next to each other; and margin, which creates a gap between the columns.</p>
<h3>CSS clear</h3>
<p>The clear property specifies that no element within the same containing element should touch the left or right-hand sides of a box.</p>
<p>It has the following values:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Left: </b>The left-hand side of the block should not touch elements in the same containing element.</li>
<li><b>Right: </b>The right-hand side of the block should not touch elements in the same containing element.</li>
<li><b>Both: </b>Neither the left or right-hand sides of the block will touch elements in the same containing element.
None. Elements can touch either side.</li>
</ul>
<pre lang="css">p { clear: left;}
</pre>
<h2>Multiple CSS</h2>
<p>In the HTML you can use a &lt;link&gt; tag for each external CSS file. You also have another option to include the CSS file in another CSS file.</p>
<h3>CSS import</h3>
<p>The modular approach to CSS is to create separate stylesheets to control layout, text, forms, etc., for a site or even a subsection of a site.</p>
<p>To include another CSS file in your CSS file, you can use the @import rule.</p>
<pre lang="css">@import url("text.css");
@import url("form.css");
body {
  color: #aabbcc;
  background-color: #112233;
}
#page {width: 90%;}
</pre>
<h2>CSS Images</h2>
<p>You can use CSS  to control the size and alignment of images.</p>
<h3>CSS Image width and height</h3>
<p>The width and height properties control the size of an image.</p>
<pre lang="css">img.front_page { width: 300px; height: 300px;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS Image float</h3>
<p>The float property moves an element to the left or the right of its containing block; It also can align images.</p>
<pre lang="css">img { float: left;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS Image display and margin</h3>
<p>Images are inline elements that flow within the surrounding text. To center an image, we use display property to turn it into a block-level element. After the image turned into a block-level element, you use the use the margin property and set the values of the left and right margins to auto.</p>
<pre lang="css">img { display: block; margin: 0px auto;}
</pre>
<h3>CSS background-image</h3>
<p>The background-image places an image behind any HTML element.</p>
<pre lang="css">p { background-image: url("img.gif");}
</pre>
<p>Background images are often the last thing on the page to load. If the image is large, it can slow down the loading speed.</p>
<h3>CSS background-repeat</h3>
<p>The background-repeat property has four values:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Repeat: </b>The background image is repeated both horizontally and vertically.</li>
<li><b>Repeat-x: </b>The image is repeated horizontally only.</li>
<li><b>Repeat-y: </b>The image is repeated vertically only.</li>
<li><b>No-repeat: </b>The image is only shown once.</li>
</ul>
<pre lang="css">body {
  background-image: url("img.gif");
  background-repeat: repeat-x;
}
</pre>
<h3>CSS background-attachment</h3>
<p>The background-attachment specifies whether a background image should stay in one position or move as the user scrolls up and down the page.</p>
<p>It has two values:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Fixed: </b>The background image stays in the same position.</li>
<li><b>Scroll: </b>The background image moves up and down as the user scrolls up and down.</li>
</ul>
<pre lang="css">body {
  background-image: url("img.gif");
  background-attachment: fixed;
}
</pre>