---
ID: 686
post_title: C
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/c/
published: true
post_date: 2019-03-05 13:22:20
---
    <h2>C Introduction</h2>
    <p>C is general-purpose, compiled, imperative, static, strongly typed language.</p>
    <h3>C Versions</h3>
    <p>C is ANSI standardized. The version difference is not an issue for most people.</p>
    <h3>C Environment Setup</h3>
    <p>Use GCC on Linux or GCC bundled in a MinGW distribution on Windows. </p>
    <pre>&gt; gcc --version
gcc (Ubuntu 5.4.0-6ubuntu1~16.04.10) 5.4.0 20160609
Copyright (C) 2015 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
</pre>
    <h3>C "Hello, World!"</h3>
    <pre lang="c">/* Hello World */
#include &lt;stdio.h&gt;
int main(){ 
  printf("Hello, World!\n"); 
  return 0;
}
</pre>
    <h3>C Compiling and Executing</h3>
    <pre>&gt; gcc sample.c
&gt; ./a.exe
Hello, World!
&gt;</pre>
    <h2>C Types, Operators and Expressions</h2>
    <h3>C Variable Names</h3>
    <p>C variable names are made up of letters and digits; the first character must be a letter. The underscore "_" counts as a letter.</p>
    <h3>C Data Types and Sizes</h3>
<ul>
    <li><b>char:</b> a single byte, capable of holding one character in the local character set.</li>
    <li><b>int:</b> an integer, typically reflecting the natural size of integers on the host machine.</li>
    <li><b>float:</b> single-precision floating point.</li>
    <li><b>double:</b> double-precision floating point.</li>
    <li><b>short:</b> qualifier apply to integers.</li>
    <li><b>long:</b> qualifier apply to integers or double.</li>
    <li><b>signed:</b> applied to char or any integer.</li>
    <li><b>unsigned:</b> applied to char or any integer.</li>
</ul>   
 <h3>C Constants</h3>
    <p>C has integer constant, float-point constant, character constant.</p>
    <p>The suffix l or L of an integer constant indicates a long int, as in 1234L; 
    the suffix u or U of an integer constant indicates a unsigned int; 
    the suffix f or F of an float-point constant indicates a float; 
    the suffix l or L of an float-point constant indicates a long double.</p>
    <p>A leading 0 (zero) on an integer constant means octal; 
     a leading Ox or ox means hexadecimal.</p> 
    <p>A character constant is an integer, written as one character within single
     quotes, such as 'x'.</p>

    <p>Certain characters can be represented in character and string constants by
    escape sequences like \n.</p>
    <p>C escape sequence.</p>
   <ul>
    <li>\a - alert (bell) character</li>
    <li>\b - backspace </li>
    <li>\f - formfeed</li>
    <li>\n - newline</li>
    <li>\r - carriage return</li>
    <li>\t - horizontal tab</li>
    <li>\v - vertical tab</li>
    <li>\\ - backslash</li>
    <li>\? - question mark</li>
    <li>\' - single quote</li>
    <li>\" - double quote</li>
    <li>\ooo - octal number</li>
    <li>\xhh - hexadecimal number</li>
   </ul>
    <p>An arbitrary byte-sized bit pattern can be specified by '\000'
    where 000 is one to three octal digits (0...7) or by '\xhh'
      where hh is one or more hexadecimal digits (0 ... 9, a ... f, A ..F).</p>

    <p>A string constant, or string literal, is a sequence of zero or more characters
    surrounded by double quotes, as in "I am a string". String constants can be concatenated 
    at compile time: "hello," " world" is equivalent to "hello, world". The internal
   representation of a string has a null character '\0' at the end, so the physical
  storage required is one more than the number of characters written between the
   quotes.</p>

    <p>Note 'x' is not the same as "x". The former is an integer,
   used to produce the numeric value of the letter x in the machine's character set.
   The latter is an array of characters that contains one character (the letter x)
   and a '\0'.</p>

   <p>An enumeration is a list of constant integer values, as in
    enum boolean { NO, YES };</p>

    <h3>C Declarations</h3>
    <p>All C variables must be declared before use. A variable may also be initialized in its declaration.</p>

   <p>The qualifier const can be applied to the declaration of any variable to
  specify that its value will not be changed. For an array, the const qualifier
  says that the elements will not be altered.</p>
  <pre>
   const char msg[] = "warning: "
   </pre>

    <h3>C Arithmetic Operators</h3>
    <p>The binary arithmetic operators are +, -, *, /, and the modulus operator %.</p>

    <h3>C Relational and Logical Operators</h3>
    <p>The relational operators are&gt;, &gt;=, &lt;, &lt;=. They have the same precedence.</p>
    <p>The equality operators are ==, !=. They have lower precedence.</p>

    <h3>C Type Conversions</h3>
   <p>Implicit arithmetic conversion rules: If either operand is long double, convert the other to long double. Otherwise, if either operand is double, convert the other to double. Otherwise, if either operand is float, convert the other to float. Otherwise, convert char and short to int. Then, if either operand is long, convert the other to long.</p>
<p>Explicit type conversions can be forced in any expression, with a unary operator called a cast. In the construction <code> (type-name) expression </code>
the expression is converted to the named type by the conversion rules above.</p>

    <h3>C Increment and Decrement Operators</h3>
    <p>The increment operator ++ adds 1 to its operand, while the decrement operator -- subtracts 1.</p>

    <h3>C Bitwise Operators</h3>
<ul>
    <li>&amp; - bitwise AND</li>
    <li>| - bitwise inclusive OR</li>
    <li>^ - bitwise exclusive OR</li>
    <li>&lt;&lt; - left shift</li>
    <li>&gt;&gt; - right shift</li>
    <li>~ - one's complement (unary) </li>
</ul>

    <h3>C Assignment Operators and Expressions</h3>
    <p>The operator += is called an assignment operator.</p>
    <p>Most binary operators (operators like + that have a left and right operand) have a corresponding assignment operator op=, where op is one of +, -, *, /, %, &lt;&lt;, &gt;&gt;, &amp;, ^, |. </p>

    <h3>C Conditional Expressions</h3>
    <p>Conditional expression, written with the ternary operator "?:", <code>c = (a &gt; b) ? a : b;</code></p>

    <h3>C Precedence and Order of Evaluation</h3>
    <table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <td>Operators</td>
          <td>Associativity</td>
        </tr>
      </thead>
      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <td>() [] -&gt; . </td>
          <td>left to right</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>! ~ ++ -- + - * (type) sizeof </td>
          <td>right to left</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>* / % </td>
          <td>left to right</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>+ - </td>
          <td>left to right</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>&lt;&lt; &gt;&gt; </td>
          <td>left to right</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>&lt; &lt;= &gt; &gt;= </td>
          <td>left to right</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>== != </td>
          <td>left to right</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>&amp; </td>
          <td>left to right</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>^ </td>
          <td>left to right</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>| </td>
          <td>left to right</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>&amp;&amp; </td>
          <td>left to right</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>|| </td>
          <td>left to right</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>?: </td>
          <td>right to left</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>= += -= *= /= %= &amp;= ^= |= &lt;&lt;= &gt;&gt;= </td>
          <td>right to left</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>, </td>
          <td>left to right</td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
    <h2>C Control Flow</h2>
    <h3>C Statements and Blocks</h3>
    <p>An expression such as <code>x = 0</code> becomes a statement when it is followed by a semicolon, as in <code>x = 0;</code> Braces { and } are used to group declarations and statements together into a block, which is equivalent to a single statement.</p>
    <h3>C If-Else</h3>
    <p>The if-else statement is used to express decisions.</p>
    <pre>if (expression)
 statement
else
 statement</pre>
    <h3>C Else-If</h3>
    <p>The else-if statement makes a multi-way decision.</p>
    <pre>if (expression)
  statement
else if (expression)
  statement
else if (expression)
  statement
else if (expression)
  statement
else
  statement</pre>
    <h3>C Switch</h3>
    <p>The switch statement is a multi-way decision that tests whether an expression matches one of a number of constant integer values, and branches accordingly. </p>
    <p>The break statement causes an immediate exit from the switch.</p>
    <pre>switch (expression) {
  case const-expr: statements; break;
  case const-expr: statements; break;
  default: statements; break;
}
</pre>
    <h3>C Loops - While</h3>
    <p>In while loop, the expression is evaluated. If it is non-zero, statement is executed and expression is re-evaluated;&nbsp; if it is zero, execution resumes after statement.</p>
    <pre>while (expression)
  statement</pre>
    <h3>C Loops - For</h3>
    <pre>for (expr1; expr2; expr3)
  statement</pre>
    <p>is the same as, </p>
    <pre>expr1;
while (expr2) {
  statement
  expr3;
}</pre>
    <h3>C Loops - Do-While</h3>
    <p>The do-while, tests at the bottom after making each pass through the loop body; the body is always executed at least once.</p>
    <pre>do
  statement
while (expression);</pre>
    <h3>C Break and Continue</h3>
    <p>The break statement provides an early exit from for, while, and do, just as from switch.</p>
    <p>The continue statement causes the next iteration of the enclosing for, while, or do loop to begin.</p>
    <h3>C Goto and labels</h3>
    <p>C provides the goto statement, and labels to branch to. </p>
    <h2>C Functions and Program Structure</h2>
    <h3>C Basics of Functions</h3>
    <p>Function definition,</p>
    <pre>return-type function-name(argument declarations){
  declarations and statements
}</pre>
    <h3>C External Variables</h3>
    <p>External variables are defined outside of any function, and are thus available to many functions.</p>
    <h3>C Scope Rules</h3>
    <p>The scope of a name is the part of the program within which the name can be used. </p>
    <p>For an automatic variable declared at the beginning of a function, the scope is the function in which the name is declared. Local variables of the same name in different functions are unrelated. The same is true of the parameters of the function, which are in effect local variables. </p>
    <p>The scope of an external variable or a function lasts from the point at which it is declared to the end of the file being compiled. It is important to distinguish between the declaration of an external variable and its definition. A declaration announces the properties of a variable (primarily its type); a definition also causes storage to be set aside. </p>
    <h3>C Header Files</h3>
    <p>The definitions and declarations shared among files are placed in a header file. To use it, use <code>#include "headfile.h"</code>.</p>
    <h3>C Static Variables</h3>
    <p>The static declaration, applied to an external variable or function, limits the scope of that object to the rest of the source file being compiled.</p>
    <h3>C Register Variables</h3>
    <p>A register declaration advises the compiler that the variable will be heavily used. The idea is that register variables are to be placed in machine registers, which may result in smaller and faster programs. But compilers are free to ignore the advice.</p>
    <h3>C Initialization</h3>
    <p>External and static variables are guaranteed to be initialized to zero; automatic and register variables have undefined initial values.</p>
    <h3>C Recursion</h3>
    <p>C functions may be used recursively; that is, a function may call itself either directly or indirectly.</p>
    <h3>C Preprocessor</h3>
    <p>The two most frequently used preprocessor features are #include, to include the contents of a file during compilation, and #define, to replace a token by an arbitrary sequence of characters.</p>
    <h2>C Pointers and Arrays</h2>
    <h3>C Pointers and Addresses</h3>
    <p>The unary operator &amp; gives the address of an object</p>
    <p>The unary operator * is the indirection or dereferencing operator; when applied to a pointer, it accesses the object the pointer points to.</p>
    <h3>C Pointers and Function Arguments</h3>
    <p>Since C passes arguments to functions by value, there is no direct way for the called function to alter a variable in the calling function. The right way is to pass pointers to the variable to be changed.</p>
    <h3>C Pointers and Arrays</h3>
    <p>There is one difference between an array name and a pointer.</p>
    <h3>C Address Arithmetic</h3>
    <p>Pointer arithmetic is consistent: if we are dealing with floats, and if p were a pointer to float, p++ would advance to the next float.</p>
    <h3>C Pointers to Functions</h3>
    <p>In C, a function itself is not a variable, but it is possible to define pointers to functions, which can be assigned, placed in arrays, passed to functions, returned by functions, and so on.</p>
    <h2>C Structures</h2>
    <h3>C Basics of Structures</h3>
    <p>A struct declaration defines a type. </p>
    <h3>C Typedef</h3>
    <p>C provides a facility called typedef for creating new data type names. For example, the declaration <code>typedef int Length;</code> makes the name Length a synonym for int.</p>
    <h3>C Unions</h3>
    <p>A union is a variable that may hold (at different times) objects of different types and sizes, with the compiler keeping track of size and alignment requirements. </p>
    <p>Unions provide a way to manipulate different kinds of data in a single area of storage, without embedding any machine-dependent information in the program.</p>
    <h3>C Bit-fields</h3>
    <p>A bit-field is a set of adjacent bits within a single implementation-defined storage unit that we will call a "word".</p>
    <pre>
struct {
 unsigned int is_keyword : 1;
 unsigned int is_extern : 1;
 unsigned int is_static : 1;
} flags;    
    </pre>