---
ID: 912
post_title: DOM
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/dom/
published: true
post_date: 2019-04-05 16:35:52
---
<h2>DOM</h2>
<h3>DOM Introduction</h3>
<p>The Document Object Model (DOM) specifies how browsers should create a model of an HTML
page and how JavaScript can access and update the contents of the page.
The DOM is neither part of HTML, nor part of JavaScript; it is a separate set of rules.
The DOM is an Application Programming Interface (API) which covers two primary areas:</p>
<b>Making a model of the HTML page</b>
<p>When the browser loads a web page, it creates a model of the page in memory.
The DOM specifies the way in which the browser should structure this model using
a DOM tree. The DOM tree is made of objects. Each object represents a different part of
the page.</p>
<b>Accessing and Changing the HTML page</b>
<p>The DOM also defines methods and properties to access and update each
object in this model, which in turn updates the page in the browser.</p>

<p>Accessing and updating the DOM tree involves two steps:</p>
<ul>
<li>Locate the node that represents the element you want to work with.</li>
<li>Use its text content, child elements, and attributes.</li>
</ul>

<h3>DOM APIs</h3>
<ul>
<li>getElementByld () - Uses the value of an element's id attribute (which should be unique within the page).</li>
<li>getElementsByClassName() - Selects all elements that have a specific value for their class attribute.</li>
<li>getElementsByTagName() - Selects all elements that have the specified tag name.</li>
<li>querySe1ector () - Uses a CSS selector, and returns the first matching element.</li>
<li>querySelectorAll() - Uses a CSS selector to select all matching elements.</li>
<li>createElement(), createTextNode(), appendChild(), removeChild() - Several methods let you create new nodes, add nodes to a tree,
and remove nodes from a tree. This is called DOM manipulation.</li>
<li>item() - return an individual node from the Node list. </li>
</ul>

<h3>DOM Properties</h3>
<ul>
<li>parentNode - Selects the parent of the current element node (which will return just one element).</li>
<li>previousSibling / nextSibling - Selects the previous or next sibling from the DOM tree.</li>
<li>firstChild / lastChild - Selects the first or last child of the current element.</li>
<li>nodeValue - allows access or update contents of a text node.</li>
<li>innerHTML -allows access to child elements and text content.</li>
<li>textContent - just the text content.</li>
<li>innerText - just the text content.</li>
<li>className /id - to work with attributes.</li>
<li>hasAttribute(), getAttribute(), setAttribute(), removeAttribute() - The first checks if an attribute
exists. The second gets its value. The third updates the value. The fourth removes an attribute.</li>
</ul>

<h3>XSS</h3>
<p>If you add HTML to a page using innerHTML (or several jQuery methods),
you need to be aware of Cross-Site Scripting Attacks(XSS); otherwise,
an attacker could gain access to your users' accounts.</p>

<h3>Events Types</h3>
<b>UI Events</b>
<ul>
<li>load - Web page has finished loading</li>
<li>unload - Web page is unloading (usually because a new page was requested)</li>
<li>error - Browser encounters a JavaScript error or an asset doesn't exist</li>
<li>resize - Browser window has been resized</li>
<li>scroll - User has scrolled up or down the page</li>
</ul>

<b>Keyboard Events</b>
<ul>
<li>keydown User first presses a key (repeats while key is depressed)</li>
<li>keyup User releases a key</li>
<li>keypress Character is being inserted (repeats while key is depressed)</li>
</ul>

<b>Mouse Events</b>
<ul>
<li>click - User presses and releases a button over the same element</li>
<li>dblclick - User presses and releases a button twice over the same element</li>
<li>mousedown - User presses a mouse button while over an element</li>
<li>mouseup - User releases a mouse button while over an element</li>
<li>mousemove - User moves the mouse (not on a touchscreen)</li>
<li>mouseover - User moves the mouse over an element (not on a touchscreen)</li>
<li>mouseout - User moves the mouse off an element (not on a touchscreen)</li>
</ul>

<b>Focus Events</b>
<ul>
<li>focus/focusin - Element gains focus</li>
<li>blur/focusout - Element loses focus</li>
</ul>

<b>Form Events</b>
<ul>
<li>input - Value in any &lt;input> or &lt;textarea> element has changed (IE9+) or any element with the contenteditable attribute
<li>change - Value in select box, checkbox, or radio button changes (IE9+)
<li>submit - User submits a form (using a button or a key)
<li>reset - User clicks on a form's rest button (rarely used these days)
<li>cut - User cuts content from a form field
<li>copy - User copies content from a form field
<li>paste - User pastes content into a form field
<li>select - User selects some text in a form field
</ul>

<b>Mutation Event</b>
<ul>
<li>DOMSubtreeModified - Change has been made to document<li>
<li>DOMNodelnserted - Node has been inserted as a direct child of another node<li>
<li>DOMNodeRemoved - Node has been removed from another node<li>
<li>OOMNodelnsertedlntoDocument - Node has been inserted as a descendant of another node<li>
<li>DOMNodeRemovedFromOocument - Node has been removed as a descendant of another node<li>
</ul>

<b>Bind Event with Element<b>
<ul>
<li>HTML Event Handler - Early versions of HTML included a set of attributes that could respond to events on the
element they were added to. The attribute names matched the event names. Their values called the function that was to
run when that event occurred. This is bad practice, but you need to be aware of it because you may see it in older code.</li>
<li>DOM Event Handler - DOM event handlers were introduced in the original
specification for the DOM. They are considered better than HTML event handlers because
they let you separate the JavaScript from the HTML.</li>
<li>Event Listener - Introduced in an update to the DOM
specification (DOM level 2, released in the year 2000).
They are now the favored way of handling events.
</ul>