---
ID: 947
post_title: MySQL
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/mysql/
published: true
post_date: 2019-04-20 13:29:34
---
<h2>MySQL Introduction</h2>

<h3>MySQL Client/Server Architecture</h3>
<p>MySQL uses a client/server architecture. </p>
<p>The mysqld is the database server program. </p>
<p>MySQL clients include:</p> 
<ul>
<li>MySQL Query Browser and MySQL Administrator are graphical clients.</li>
<li>The tool mysql is a interactive command-line client; mysqlimport is for importing data files; mysqldump is for making backups; mysqladmin is for server administration; and
mysqlcheck is for checking the integrity of the database files.</li>
</ul>

<h3>MySQL Installation</h3>
<p>On Ubuntu, run below commands to install MySQL,</p>
<pre>
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install mysql-server
sudo ufw allow mysql  # Allow remote access
sudo systemctl start mysql # Start the MySQL service
sudo systemctl enable mysql # Enable the MySQL service
sudo mysql -u root -p # Start the mysql shell
</pre> 

<p>The following mysql shell prompt should appear:</p>
<pre>
mysql>
</pre>

<p>The mysql Options</p>
<table>
<tr><td>Option</td><td> Meaning</td></tr>
<tr><td>&#45;&#45;protocol</td><td> The protocol to use for the connection (tcp, socket, pipe, memory)</td></tr>
<tr><td>- -host</td><td> The host where the server is running</td></tr>
<tr><td>- -port</td><td> The port number for TCP/IP connections</td></tr>
<tr><td>- -shared-memory-base-name</td><td> The shared-memory name for shared-memory connections</td></tr>
<tr><td>- -socket</td><td> The Unix socket filename or named-pipe name</td></tr>
<tr><td>- -user</td><td> The MySQL account username</td></tr>
<tr><td>- -password</td><td> The MySQL account password</td></tr>
</table>

<h3>MySQL Server SQL Modes</h3>
<p>MySQL Server SQL mode consists of optional values that each control some aspect of query processing. The SQL mode is controlled by means of the sql_mode system variable. </p>


<h2>MySQL Basics</h2>

<h3>MySQL Data Types</h3>
<h4>MySQL Integer Data Types</h4>
<table>
<tr><td>Type</td><td>Storage Required</td><td>Signed Range</td><td>Unsigned Range</td></tr>
<tr><td>TINYINT</td><td>1 byte</td><td>–128 to 127</td><td>0 to 255</td></tr>
<tr><td>INT</td><td>2 bytes</td><td>–32,768 to 32,767</td><td>0 to 65,535</td></tr>
<tr><td>SMALLINT</td><td>3 bytes</td><td>–8,388,608 to 8,388,607</td><td>0 to 16,777,215</td></tr>
<tr><td>MEDIUMINT</td><td>4 bytes</td><td>–2,147,683,648 to 2,147,483,647</td><td>0 to 4,294,967,295</td></tr>
<tr><td>BIGINT</td><td>8 bytes</td><td>–9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to 9,223,372,036,854,775,807</td><td>0 to 18,446,744,073,709,551,615</td></tr>
</table>
<p>Integer data types may be declared with a display width, which affects the number of digits
used to display column values in query output.</p>
<h4>MySQL Floating-Point Data Types</h4>
<p>The floating-point data types include FLOAT and DOUBLE. You can specify explicit precision and scale values in the column definition to indicate the number of significant digits and the number of decimal places to the right of the decimal point.</p>
<h4>MySQL Fixed-Point Data Types</h4>
<p>The fixed-point data type is DECIMAL .</p>

<h4>MySQL BIT Data Type</h4>
<p>The BIT data type represents bit-field values.</p>

<h4>MySQL String Data Types</h4>
<table>
<tr><td>Type</td><td>Description</td></tr>
<tr><td>CHAR</td><td>Fixed-length non-binary string</td></tr>
<tr><td>VARCHAR</td><td>Variable-length non-binary string</td></tr>
<tr><td>TEXT</td><td>Variable-length non-binary string</td></tr>
<tr><td>BINARY</td><td>Fixed-length binary string</td></tr>
<tr><td>VARBINARY</td><td>Variable-length binary string</td></tr>
<tr><td>BLOB</td><td>Variable-length binary string</td></tr>
<tr><td>ENUM</td><td>Enumeration consisting of a fixed set of legal values</td></tr>
<tr><td>SET</td><td>Set consisting of a fixed set of legal values</td></tr>
</table>

<h4>MySQL ENUM and SET Data Types</h4>
<p>The ENUM and SET string data types are used when the values to be stored in a column are
chosen from a fixed set of values.</p>

<h4>MySQL Temporal Data Types</h4>
<table>
<tr><td>Type</td><td>Storage Required</td><td>Range</td></tr>
<tr><td>DATE</td><td>3 bytes</td><td>‘1000-01-01 to ‘9999-12-31’</td></tr>
<tr><td>TIME</td><td>3 bytes</td><td>‘-838:59:59’ to ‘838:59:59’</td></tr>
<tr><td>DATETIME</td><td>8 bytes</td><td>‘1000-01-01’ 00:00:00’ to ‘9999-12-31 23:59:59’</td></tr>
<tr><td>TIMESTAMP</td><td>4 bytes</td><td>‘1970-01-01 00:00:00’ to mid-year 2037</td></tr>
<tr><td>YEAR</td><td>1 byte</td><td>1901 to 2155 (for YEAR(4) ), 1970 to 2069 (for YEAR(2) )</td></tr>
</table>

<h4>MySQL Column Attributes</h4>
<ul>
<li>UNSIGNED causes negative values to be disallowed.</li>
<li>ZEROFILL causes retrieved values to be left-padded with leading zeros up to the column’s
display width. </li>
<li>AUTO_INCREMENT used to generate sequences of successive unique values. </li>
<li>CHARACTER SET specifies the character set to use for the column. </li>
<li>COLLATE specifies the character set collation.</li>
<li>BINARY is shorthand for specifying the binary collation of the column’s character set.</li>
<li>NULL and NOT NULL apply to all types of columns. They indicate whether a column can
contain NULL values.</li>
<li>EFAULT value provides a column with a default value to be used when you create a new
record but don’t explicitly specify a value for the column.</li>
</ul>

<h3>MySQL Identifiers</h3>
<p>Identifiers may be unquoted or quoted. If unquoted, an identifier must follow these rules:
<ul>
<li>An identifier may contain all alphanumeric characters, the underline character (‘_’), and
the dollar sign (‘$’).</li>
<li>An identifier may begin with any of the legal characters, even a digit. </li>
<li>An identifier cannot consist entirely of digits.</li>
</ul>
<p>Quoting causes the identifier syntax rules to be relaxed as follows:</p>
<ul>
<li>In general, any character may be used in a quoted identifier. Exceptions are that an
identifier cannot contain a byte with a numeric value of 0 or 255, and database and
table names cannot contain ‘ . ’, ‘ / ’, or ‘ \ ’.</li>
<li>A quoted identifier may consist entirely of digits.</li>
</ul>

<h3>MySQL Databases</h3>
<p>Each MySQL server has a data directory. On Linux, it is at /var/lib/mysql/. MySQL uses the database directory to manage the components such as its tables. Each database directory has a default character set and collation. MySQL Server can manage multiple databases, each of which may contain multiple tables.</p>

<h4>MySQL Creating Databases</h4>
<p>The following statement creates a database named world</p>
<pre>CREATE DATABASE world</pre>
<p>If you want to ensure that the database exists, add an IF NOT EXISTS clause to the statement,</p>
<pre>CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS world</pre>
<p>The CREATE DATABASE statement has two optional clauses, CHARACTER SET and COLLATE , that
assign a default character set and collation for the database. The database defaults are stored in the db.opt file in the database directory.</p>
<pre>CREATE DATABASE mydb CHARACTER SET utf8 COLLATE utf8_danish_ci</pre>
<p>To make the new database the default database, issue a USE statement,</p>
<pre>USE world;</pre>

<h4>MySQL Altering Databases</h4>
<p>The statement changes the default collation of the world database to utf8_polish_ci:</p>
<pre>ALTER DATABASE world COLLATE utf8_polish_ci;</pre>
<p>This statement changes both the default character set and collation:</p>
<pre>ALTER DATABASE world CHARACTER SET latin1 COLLATE latin1_swedish_ci;</pre>
<p>If no database is named, the statement changes the options for the default database.</p>


<h4>MySQL Dropping Databases</h4>
<p>Remove database:</p>
<pre>DROP DATABASE world;</pre>
<p>If database not exist, to avlid an error, include an IF clause:</p>
<pre>DROP DATABASE IF EXISTS mydb;</pre>
<p>Before dropping the database, MySQL removes tables, stored routines, and triggers in it. If you drop a database by mistake, your only option is to recover the database and its contents from your backups.</p>

<h4>MySQL Obtaining Database Metadata</h4>
<p>The INFORMATION_SCHEMA database has a SCHEMATA table that contains database metadata.</p>
<pre>SELECT * FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SCHEMATA WHERE SCHEMA_NAME = "world"; </pre>
<p>The statement that lists database names is:</p>
<pre>SHOW DATABASES </pre>
<p>To show the CREATE DATABASE statement that creates a database:</p>
<pre>SHOW CREATE DATABASE</pre>


<h3>MySQL Tables and Indexes</h3>

<h4>MySQL Creating Tables</h4>
<b>Creating tables using an explicit definition</b>
<pre>CREATE TABLE table_name (column_definitions);</pre>
<p>If you want to create a human table in the
world database, write the CREATE TABLE statement like this:</p>
<pre>CREATE TABLE world.human (column_definitions)</pre>
<p>When you create a table, you can provide index definitions in addition to the column 
definitions.</p>
<pre>
CREATE TABLE human (
  id INT NOT NULL,
  last_name VARCHAR(30) NOT NULL,
  first_name VARCHAR(30) NOT NULL,
  UNIQUE (id),
  INDEX (last_name, first_name)
);
</pre>

<b>MySQL specifying the storage engine for a table</b>
<p>To specify a storage engine when you create a table, include an ENGINE = engine_name option
in the CREATE TABLE statement.</p>
<pre>CREATE TABLE t (i INT) ENGINE = InnoDB;</pre>

<b>MySQL creating tables based on existing tables</b>
<p>CREATE TABLE ... SELECT creates a table and populates it from the result set returned by an arbitrary SELECT statement. In this case, the “other table” is the set of rows and
columns retrieved by the SELECT .</p>
<p>CREATE TABLE ... LIKE creates an empty table using the definition of another existing table.</p>

<b>MySQL using TEMPORARY tables</b>
<p>A TEMPORARY table is visible only to the client that created it and may be used only by that client. A TEMPORARY table exists only for the duration of the connection in which it was created. A TEMPORARY table may have the same name as a non-TEMPORARY table. A TEMPORARY table can be renamed only with ALTER TABLE. You cannot use RENAME TABLE .</p>

<h4>MySQL Altering Tables</h4>
<p>The ALTER TABLE can adding or dropping columns, changing the name or definition of a column
, adding or dropping indexes, or renaming the table.</p>
<pre>ALTER TABLE human ADD sex CHAR(1) NOT NULL;
show create table human\G</p>
<pre>ALTER TABLE human MODIFY sex CHAR(2) NOT NULL;</pre>
<pre>ALTER TABLE human CHANGE sex sex CHAR(3) NOT NULL;</pre>
<pre>ALTER TABLE human CHANGE sex gender CHAR(1) NOT NULL;</pre>
<pre>ALTER TABLE human RENAME TO person;</pre>
<pre>RENAME TABLE human TO person;</pre>

<h4>MySQL Drop Tables</h4>
<p>To remove a table when you no longer need it, use the DROP TABLE statement:</p>
<pre>DROP TABLE person;</pre>

<h4>MySQL Emptying Tables</h4>
<p>To remove records from a table without removing the table itself, use the DELETE or
TRUNCATE TABLE statement. </p>
<pre>DELETE FROM t;
TRUNCATE TABLE t;</pre>


<h3>MySQL Querying</h3>
<h3>MySQL Expressions</h3>
<h3>MySQL Updating</h3>