---
ID: 756
post_title: Java
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/java/
published: true
post_date: 2019-03-13 21:29:01
---
    <h2>Java Introduction</h2>
    <h3>Java Source File Structure</h3>
    <p> Java object is defined as a class (Object) in a Java
      source file (Object.java). The Java compiler (javac) compiles Object.java
      to bytecode (Object.class) and then then JVM (Java Virtual Machine)
      (java) run Object.class directly.</p>
<pre>javac Object.java
java Object</pre>
    <p>A Java source file can also define Java entities such as interface, enum,
      etc. </p>

    <h4>Java Comments</h4>
    <p>Comments make the code easier to read.</p>
    <p>Multi-line comments start with /* and end with */ and can span multiple
      lines .</p>
    <p>End-of-line comments start with // and end in the current line.</p>
    <p>Javadoc comments have special syntax that start with /** and end with */.
      Javadoc comments are processed by Javadoc to generate API documentation. </p>
    

    <h4>Java Classes</h4>
    <p>When several classes put in one file, at most one of
      the classes in the file is allowed to be public.</p>
    
    <b>Java Class Definition</b>
    <pre lang="java">public final class Cat extends Animal implements Pet { }
</pre>
    <p>The definition of a class has the following parts:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Access modifiers, public, optional</li>
      <li>Non-access modifiers, final, optional</li>
      <li>Keyword class and class name Cat</li>
      <li>keyword extends and base class name, here is Animal, when extending a
        base class</li>
      <li>keyword implements and all implemented interfaces, here is Pet, when
        implementing any interfaces</li>
      <li>Class body (fields, methods, constructors), included within a pair of
        curly braces {} </li>
    </ul>

    <b>Java variables</b>
    <p>Local variables are variables defined within methods. Instance
      variables are used to store the state of an object (instance). Class
      variables (static variables) are shared by all the objects of a class.</p>
    <p>Local variables must be initialized before use. They do not have a
      default value. Instance and class variables do not require you to
      initialize them.</p>
    <p>Local variables have a scope from declaration to end of block. Instance
      variables have a scope from declaration until object garbage collected.
      Class variables have a scope from declaration until program ends.</p>

    <b>Java methods</b>
    <p>Instance methods can manipulate both instance variables and static
      variables. Class methods or static methods can manipulate static
      variables. Class constructors are used to create and initialize the
      objects of a class.</p>
    <pre lang="java">class Cat {
  String name;
  Cat(String name) { this.name = name; }
  void walk() {}
}
</pre>

    <h4>Java Packages</h4>
    <b>Java package Statement</b>
    <p>A Java class can be explicitly defined in a named package; otherwise, it
      becomes part of a default package, which doesn’t have a name. </p>
    <p>A package statement is used to explicitly define which package a class belongs
      to. The package statement must be the first statement in the class
      definition.</p>
    <pre lang="java">package animal;
class Cat{ }
</pre> 

    <b>Java import Statement</b>
    <p>To use a class/interface from another package, you must use its fully
      name packageName.subPackageName.ClassName. or you can use the
      import statement and then use the ClassName directly.</p>
    <pre>import aminal.Cat;
</pre>

    <p>Classes in the same package are often imported together. You can use a
      shortcut to import all the classes in a package. Note a wildcard only
      matches class names.</p>
    <pre>import aminal.*;</pre>

    <p>Some system packages, such as java.lang, are automatically imported.</p>
    <p>Sometimes you want to use class with the same name from two different
      packages. When this happens, you can pick one to use in the import and use
      the other’s fully qualified class name.</p>

    <h4>Java Interfaces</h4>
    <p>An interface specifies a contract for the classes to implement. The
      methods in an interface can define a default implementation. Interfaces
      can also define static methods.</p>
    <pre>interface Pet {
 public play();
}
</pre>

    <h3>Java "Hello, World!"</h3>
    <p>The JVM run an executable Java class from the main method. </p>
    <pre lang="java">public class Main {
  public static void main(String args[]) {
    System.out.println("Hello, World");
  }
}
</pre>
    <p>The method must be public, be static, return a void value, be named as
      main, and accept String array as parameters. </p>
    <p>Now we can compile and run it.</p>
    <pre>$ javac Main.java 
$ java Main 
Hello, World!
$ 
</pre>
    <p>Another example which has class, sub-class and interface:</p>
    <p>The files are,</p>
    <pre>src
├── animal
│&nbsp;&nbsp; └── Cat.java
├── Animal.java
├── Main.java
└── Pet.java
</pre>
    <p>animal/Cat.java</p>
    <pre lang="java">package animal;
import base.*;
public class Cat extends Animal implements Pet{
  public Cat(String name) { super(name); }
  public void play() { System.out.println("Cat play!"); }
}
</pre>
    <p>Animal.java</p>
    <pre>package base;
public class Animal {
  String name;
  public Animal(String name) { this.name = name; }
  public String getName() { return this.name; }
  public void hello() { System.out.println("Hi, this is " + this.name + "."); }
}</pre>
    <p>Main.java</p>
    <pre>import animal.Cat;

public class Main {
  public static void main(String args[]) {
    Cat cat = new Cat("Tom");
    cat.hello();
    cat.play();
  }
}
</pre>
    <p>Pet.java</p>
    <pre>package base;
public interface Pet {
  public void play();
}</pre>
    <p>Command to compile and run them</p>
    <pre>$ javac -d . -sourcepath src src/Animal.java  src/Pet.java src/Main.java src/animal/Cat.java 
$ java Main 
Hi, this is Tom.
Cat play!
$</pre>
    <p>Java provides a garbage collector to automatically look for objects that
      aren’t needed anymore.</p>
    <p>An object is no longer reachable when one of two situations occurs: </p>
    <ul>
      <li>The object no longer has any references pointing to it.</li>
      <li> All references to the object have gone out of scope.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>Java allows objects to implement a method called finalize() that might
      get called. This method gets called if the garbage collector tries to
      collect the object. If the garbage collector doesn’t run, the method
      doesn’t get called. If the garbage collector fails to collect the object
      and tries to run it again later, the method doesn’t get called a second
      time.</p>
    <h2><a href="/java/java-basics">Java Basics</a></h2>
    <h2><a href="/java/java-methods">Java Methods</a></h2>
    <h2><a href="/java/java-classes">Java Classes</a></h2>
    <h2><a href="/java/java-exceptions">Java Exceptions</a></h2>