---
ID: 376
post_title: Linux
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/linux/
published: true
post_date: 2019-02-13 17:45:26
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h2>Introduction</h2>
    <p>Linux is a computer operating system. Compared with Mac OS or Windows,
      Linux is open source and free. Linux is initiated by Linus Torvalds and
      has its root deep back to Unix. </p>
    <p>To learn Linux, you can install a Linux-distribution, for example,
      Ubuntu, on your laptop directly or in a virtual machine on your laptop, or
      access a Linux server somewhere you can log in, or use some online Linux
      terminals.</p>
    <h2>Linux Command</h2>
    <p>Below is a list of Linux commands. Most commands have options to change
      the command’s behavior. Some Linux commands are built in the shell, some
      are called form the file system. To learn the details, try "man" command
      in your Linux terminal. </p>
    <ul>
      <li>alias - define short name for command</li>
      <li>apropos - search the manual page names and descriptions</li>
      <li>bg - run command in background</li>
      <li>bzip2, bunzip2 - a block-sorting file compressor</li>
      <li>cat - concatenate files and print on the standard output</li>
      <li>cd - change directories</li>
      <li>chmod - change the permission on a file or directory</li>
      <li>chown - change file owner and group</li>
      <li>clear - clear the terminal screen</li>
      <li>cp - copy files</li>
      <li>date - print or set the system date and time</li>
      <li>df - report file system disk space usage</li>
      <li>dmesg - print or control the kernel ring buffer</li>
      <li>du - estimate file space usage</li>
      <li>echo - display a line of text</li>
      <li>exit - exit from the shell</li>
      <li>fdformat - low-level format a floppy disk</li>
      <li>fdisk - manipulate disk partition table</li>
      <li>fg - bring a background command to foreground</li>
      <li>file — determine file type</li>
      <li>find - search for files in a directory hierarchy</li>
      <li>free - Display amount of free and used memory in the system</li>
      <li>grep, egrep, fgrep, rgrep - print lines matching a pattern</li>
      <li>groupadd - create a new group</li>
      <li>groupmod - modify a group definition on the system</li>
      <li>halt, poweroff, reboot - Halt, power-off or reboot the machine</li>
      <li>head - output the first part of files</li>
      <li>help - print help information about command</li>
      <li>history - to see a list of commands that were previously run</li>
      <li>hostname - show or set the system's host name</li>
      <li>id - print real and effective user and group IDs</li>
      <li>info - read Info documents</li>
      <li>ip - show / manipulate routing, devices, policy routing and tunnels</li>
      <li>jobs - check which commands you have running in the background</li>
      <li>kill - send a signal to a process</li>
      <li>killall - kill processes by name</li>
      <li>less - opposite of more</li>
      <li>ln - make links between files</li>
      <li>locate - find files by name</li>
      <li>ls - list directory contents</li>
      <li>lscpu - display information about the CPU architecture</li>
      <li>lsmod - Show the status of modules in the Linux Kernel</li>
      <li>lspci - list all PCI devices</li>
      <li>lsusb - list USB devices</li>
      <li>man - an interface to the on-line reference manuals</li>
      <li>mkdir - Create a directory.</li>
      <li>mkfs - build a Linux filesystem</li>
      <li>modprobe - Add and remove modules from the Linux Kernel</li>
      <li>more - file perusal filter for crt viewing</li>
      <li>mv - move files</li>
      <li>nice - run a program with modified scheduling priority</li>
      <li>passwd - change user password</li>
      <li>ps - report a snapshot of the current processes.</li>
      <li>pstree - display a tree of processes</li>
      <li>pwd - print name of current/working directory</li>
      <li>renice - alter priority of running processes</li>
      <li>rm - detele files</li>
      <li>rmdir - remove empty directories</li>
      <li>rmmod - Simple program to remove a module from the Linux Kernel</li>
      <li>sed - stream editor for filtering and transforming text</li>
      <li>set - set shell options</li>
      <li>shred - overwrite a file to hide its contents, and optionally delete
        it</li>
      <li>sort - sort lines of text files</li>
      <li>ssh — OpenSSH SSH client (remote login program)</li>
      <li>strings - print the strings of printable characters in files.</li>
      <li>su - change user ID or become superuser</li>
      <li>tail - output the last part of files</li>
      <li>tar - The GNU version of the tar archiving utility</li>
      <li>touch - change file timestamps</li>
      <li>tr - translate or delete characters</li>
      <li>type - show the location of the command</li>
      <li>umask - set file mode creation mask</li>
      <li>uname - print system information</li>
      <li>uptime - Tell how long the system has been running.</li>
      <li>useradd - create a new user or update default new user information</li>
      <li>userdel - delete a user account and related files</li>
      <li>usermod - modify a user account</li>
      <li>vi - a programmers text editor</li>
      <li>vim - Vi IMproved</li>
      <li>w - Show who is logged on and what they are doing.</li>
      <li>wc - print newline, word, and byte counts for each file</li>
      <li>whatis - display one-line manual page descriptions</li>
      <li>whereis - locate the binary, source, and manual page files for a
        command</li>
      <li>which - locate a command</li>
      <li>who - show who is logged on</li>
      <li>whoami - print effective userid</li>
    </ul>
    <h2>Linux Shell</h2>
    <p>Linux Shell provides a way to create scripts, compile code, run programs,
      and manage the computer system.</p>
    <p>Linux Shell support basic programming, such as variables, statements, .
      If you are new to shell programming, you can use Perl or Python directly.
      Perl is a better Shell, and Python is a better Perl. </p>
    <h2>Linux Environment Variables</h2>
    <p>Linux shell needs some information to determine its behavior and access
      to resources. The Linux shell keeps track of these settings in the
      environment variables.</p>
    <ul>
      <li>$BASH - Contains the full pathname of the bash command. This is
        usually /bin/bash.</li>
      <li>$HOME - This is your home directory. It is your current
        working directory each time you log in or type the cd command with any
        options.</li>
      <li>$PATH - The colon-separated list of directories used to find commands
        that you type.</li>
      <li>$PWD - This is the directory that is assigned as your current
        directory.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>Linux Awk</h2>
    <p>See <a href='https://cscourses.online/topics/awk/'>Awk</a></p>
  </body>
</html>