---
ID: 552
post_title: XML
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/xml/
published: true
post_date: 2019-02-20 16:40:10
---
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=gbk">
<h2>Introduction</h2>
XML stands for eXtensible Markup Language. XML is a markup language used to describe the structure of data.

The difference between XML and HTML is: XML is designed to transport data, while HTML is designed to present data. XML tags are extensible and free to design, while HTML tags are predefined.

XML is simple, straightforward, self-described data format. From below example we can see, XML is string data wrapped in tags. You can paste below code in a file named 'languages.xml', and open it in your browser.
<pre lang="xml">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;
&lt;!-- languages and designers --&gt;
&lt;languages&gt;
  &lt;language&gt;
    &lt;name&gt;Java&lt;/name&gt;
    &lt;designer Nationality="Canadian"&gt;James Gosling&lt;/designer&gt;
  &lt;/language&gt;
  &lt;language&gt;
    &lt;name&gt;JavaScript&lt;/name&gt;
    &lt;designer nationality="American"&gt;Brendan Eich&lt;/designer&gt;
  &lt;/language&gt;
&lt;/languages&gt;
</pre>
<h2>XML Basics</h2>
<h3>XML Processing Instructions</h3>
XML uses processing instruction &lt;? and ?&gt; to pass information to applications for further process. For example, &lt;?php and ?&gt; indicates a piece of PHP code and PHP interpreter will process the instructions inside it.
<h3>XML Declaration</h3>
XML declaration is a kind of processing instruction. XML documents may have an XML declaration. The declaration must be the first line in the document. It specifies XML version, encoding, etc,.
<pre>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;</pre>
<h3>XML Comments</h3>
XML comments are syntactically similar to HTML comments. They begin with &lt;!- - and end with - -&gt;.
<pre>&lt;!-- languages and designers --&gt;</pre>
<h3>XML Elements</h3>
The whole piece of XML content is called a document. XML document forms a tree structure that starts at the root node and branches to descendent nodes, until its leaf nodes. XML document must contain one root node, called root element, which is the parent of all other elements.

XML elements must be properly nested. If you start element 'languages', then start element 'language', you must first close element 'language' before closing element 'languages'. XML, unlike HTML, is case-sensitive. Element name 'Language' is different from element 'language'.
<h3>XML Tags</h3>
XML tags look like HTML tags, used to mark XML elements. Start-tags begin with &lt; and end-tags begin with &lt;/. Both of them are followed by the name of the element and are closed by &gt;. There is a special syntax for empty elements. They can be represented by a single empty-element tag that begins with &lt; but ends with /&gt;.

You can add extra white space around the elements in your XML code. Extra white space is visible in the file, but is ignored by the XML processor.

XML element names may contain any alphanumeric character.
<h3>XML Attributes</h3>
XML elements may have attributes. An attribute is a name-value pair attached to the element's start-tag. Names are separated from values by an equals sign. Values are enclosed in single or double quotes.
<h3>XML Predefined Entities</h3>
The data inside an XML element must not contain a raw opening angle bracket (&lt;). This character is always interpreted as beginning a tag. If you need to use this character in your text, you can escape it as a predefined entity &amp;lt;, XML has five predefined entities.

<b>&amp;lt;: </b>The less-than sign, or, the opening angle bracket, &lt;

<b>&amp;gt;: </b>The greater-than sign, or, the closing angle bracket, &gt;

<b>&amp;amp;: </b>The ampersand, &amp;

<b>&amp;quot;: </b>The double quotation mark, "

<b>&amp;apos;: </b>The single quote mark, '
<h3>XML CDATA</h3>
If you have lots of data need escape, it is tedious to write them as XML predefined entities. A CDATA section is enclosed in &lt;![CDATA[ and ]]&gt;. Everything between the &lt;![CDATA[ and the ]]&gt; is treated as raw character data.
<h2>XSL</h2>
Since XML tags are free to extend, they have no inherent information about how to format them. An application, such as a browser, can't know how to display XML elements. Therefore, we need to specify how an XML document should be formatted. XSL stands for eXtensible Stylesheet Language, is used to specify how XML document should be formatted. XSL is made up of three languages:

<b>XPath</b> for selecting nodes from source documents;

<b>XSLT</b> for transforming XML data into another format;

<b>XQUERY</b>, for querying XML data. In this courses, we will not talk about its details.

Both XSLT and XQuery rely on the XPath language to select content from a XML ducoment.
<h3>XPATH</h3>
XPath stands for XML Path Language. It is a query language for selecting nodes from an XML document. For example, in 'languages.xml', we use "languages/language/name" to select the nodes of language names.
<h4>XPath Expressions</h4>
<b>root node: </b>use / to indicate the root node of the XML document

<b>current node: </b>use . (a single period) to select the current node.

<b>parent node: </b>use .. (two periods) to select the current node's parent.

<b>child node: </b>use /element_name to select the child elements of a paticular node.

<b>descendant node: </b>use // (double forward slash) to select all the descendants of a particular node.

<b>attribute: </b>use ./@attribute_name to select the attribute.

Use ./element_name[@attribute_name] to select all the child elements that have a specified attribute.

Use ./element_name[@attribute_name='attribute_value'] to select all the child elements that have a attribute match a value.
<h4>XPath Functions</h4>
Use = (equal to), != (not equal to), &amp;gt; (greater than), &amp;gt;= (greater than or equal to), &amp;lt; (less than), or &amp;lt;= (less than or equal to) to compare two values.

Use position() = n to identify the position of the node within the current node set

Use the mathematical operator: * (for multiplication), div (for division), + (for addition), or – (for subtraction).

Use count() to count node numbers.
<h3>XSLT</h3>
When you open 'languages.xml' in browser, you may say a line says: "This XML file does not appear to have any style information associated with it. The document tree is shown below."

The XML document 'languages.xml' contains the source data to be transformed to HTML, but we need a XSLT style sheet document which describes the rules of the transformation. So, here we provide a XSLT file 'languages.xsl' to define style information.

The new version of 'languages.xml', note there is an xml-stylesheet processing instruction which links the XML document to the XSLT style sheet 'languages.xsl'.

&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;
<pre>&lt;?xml-stylesheet type="text/xsl" href="languages.xsl"?&gt;
&lt;languages&gt;
  &lt;language&gt;
    &lt;name&gt;Java&lt;/name&gt;
    &lt;designer Nationality="Canadian"&gt;James Gosling&lt;/designer&gt;
  &lt;/language&gt;
  &lt;language&gt;
    &lt;name&gt;JavaScript&lt;/name&gt;
    &lt;designer nationality="American"&gt;Brendan Eich&lt;/designer&gt;
  &lt;/language&gt;
&lt;/languages&gt;</pre>
The 'languages.xsl':
<pre>&lt;?xml version="1.0"?&gt;
&lt;xsl:stylesheet xmlns:xsl="http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Transform" version="1.0"&gt;
&lt;xsl:template match="/"&gt;
  &lt;html&gt;
    &lt;head&gt;
      &lt;title&gt;Languages&lt;/title&gt;
    &lt;/head&gt;
    &lt;body&gt;
      &lt;h1&gt;Languages&lt;/h1&gt;
      &lt;xsl:for-each select="languages/language"&gt;
        &lt;br/&gt;      
        &lt;xsl:value-of select="./name"/&gt;:
        &lt;xsl:choose&gt;
          &lt;xsl:when test="./designer[@nationality='American']"&gt;
            &lt;b&gt;&lt;xsl:value-of select="./designer"/&gt;&lt;/b&gt;;         
          &lt;/xsl:when&gt;
          &lt;xsl:when test="./designer[@nationality='Canadian']"&gt;
            &lt;i&gt;&lt;xsl:value-of select="./designer"/&gt;&lt;/i&gt;;        
          &lt;/xsl:when&gt;
          &lt;xsl:otherwise&gt;
            &lt;xsl:value-of select="./designer"/&gt;,        
          &lt;/xsl:otherwise&gt;
        &lt;/xsl:choose&gt;
      &lt;/xsl:for-each&gt;
    &lt;/body&gt;
  &lt;/html&gt;
&lt;/xsl:template&gt;
&lt;/xsl:stylesheet&gt;</pre>
<h4>XML Namespace</h4>
Note in 'languages.xsl', the second line define a xmlns, called XML Namespace.

In the xsl file, we have some tags, such as &lt;xsl:for-each&gt;, or &lt;xsl:choose&gt;. These tags are XLST tags. They have a prefix xsl:. The purpose to add a prefix for some tags is to avoid name confliction with self-defined tags in the document. Imagine in your xsl document, you defined a tag named &lt;for-each&gt;, then the browser knows the tag &lt;for-each&gt; is different from the tag &lt;xsl:for-each&gt; since the second one has a prefix xsl:. The way the prefix works is called XML namespace.

In XML, namespace is written in the form of a URI (Uniform Resource Identifier).
<pre>xmlns:xsl="http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Transform"
</pre>
When you want to use tags from a namespace, simply add prefix before the tag.
<h4>XSLT Instructions</h4>
During the transformation, the XSLT processor analyzes the XML document and converts it into a node tree. It then looks to the XSLT style sheet for instructions on how to transform those nodes. Those instructions are contained in XSLT templates. Each XSLT template has two parts:

<b>First, </b>a XPath that identifies the nodes to apply transform. Here we use "/" to match the root node.

<b>Second, </b>instructions about the actual transformation that should take place. XSLT is designed as a special-purpose language for XML transformation, but the language is Turing-complete, making it theoretically capable of arbitrary computations.

<b>XSL value-of</b>

The &lt;xsl:value-of&gt; element outputs the content of an XML node string value. For example,
<pre>&lt;xsl:value-of select="languages/language/name"/&gt;</pre>
will print 'Java' in your browser.

<b>XSL for-each</b>

The &lt;xsl:for-each&gt; element acts on all nodes matched by its select attribute, one after the other. For example,
<pre>&lt;xsl:for-each select="languages/language"&gt;
  &lt;xsl:value-of select="./name"/&gt;,
&lt;/xsl:for-each&gt;</pre>
will generate a string "Java, JavaScript,"

<b>XSL if
</b>

The &lt;xsl:if&gt; element let you process nodes conditionally. For example,
<pre>&lt;xsl:if test="designer[@nationality!='America']"&gt;
  &lt;xsl:value-of select="./designer"/&gt;,        
&lt;/xsl:if&gt;</pre>
will generate a string "JavaScript,"
<h4>XSL choose, when and otherwise</h4>
The &lt;xsl:choose&gt;, &lt;xsl:when&gt;and &lt;xsl:otherwise&gt; elements let you several different conditions. For example,
<pre>&lt;xsl:choose&gt;
  &lt;xsl:when test="./designer[@nationality='American']"&gt;
    &lt;b&gt;&lt;xsl:value-of select="./designer"/&gt;&lt;/b&gt;;         
  &lt;/xsl:when&gt;
  &lt;xsl:when test="./designer[@nationality='Canadian']"&gt;
    &lt;i&gt;&lt;xsl:value-of select="./designer"/&gt;&lt;/i&gt;;        
  &lt;/xsl:when&gt;
  &lt;xsl:otherwise&gt;
    &lt;xsl:value-of select="./designer"/&gt;,        
  &lt;/xsl:otherwise&gt;
&lt;/xsl:choose&gt;</pre>
<h4>XSL attribute</h4>
The &lt;xsl:attribute&gt; let you add attributes and values to a given output element. For example,
<pre>&lt;a&gt;
  &lt;xsl:attribute name="href"&gt;
    #&lt;xsl:value-of select="./designer"/&gt;
  &lt;/xsl:attribute&gt;
  &lt;xsl:value-of select="./name"/&gt;
&lt;/a&gt;</pre>
<h2>XML Schemas</h2>
There are languages to express XML schemas. The document type definition (DTD) language, which is native to the XML specification, is a schema language that is of relatively limited capability. DTDs defines which elements may appear where in the document and what the elements' contents and attributes are. For example, a DTD can make statements such as "A ul element only contains li elements".

One more expressive XML schema languages in widespread use are XML Schema.

In this course, we will not touch the details of details of DTD and XML Schema.