---
ID: 455
post_title: Kotlin
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/kotlin/
published: true
post_date: 2019-02-18 13:46:52
---
Kotlin is a better Java, less code, higher level abstraction, and fewer annoyances.
Kotlin has strong interoperability with Java. Switch form Java to Kotlin is smooth.
<h2>Kotlin Basics</h2>
Kotlin can run anywhere there is a Java JVM, such as server-side or Android Platform.
To learn Kotlin before you decide to install Kotlin on your laptop, you can go to <a href="https://try.kotlinlang.org">Kotlinlang.org</a> to play with the online Kotlin environment.
<pre lang="kotlin">data class Language(val name: String, 
                   val year: Int)

fun main(args: Array<string>) {
    val languages =listOf(Language("Kotlin", 2011),
                                  Language("C++", 1985),
                                  Language("Java", 1995))
	languages.sortedWith(compareBy({it.year })).forEach { println(it) }
}
</string></pre>
The result is,
<pre>Language(name=C++, year=1985)
Language(name=Java, year=1995)
Language(name=Kotlin, year=2011)
</pre>
Below introduces Kotlin basics.
<h3>Kotlin Functions</h3>
The fun keyword is used to declare a function. The parameter type is written after the parameter name. You can omit the semicolon from the end of a line.
<pre lang="kotlin">fun main(args: Array<string>){ 
    println("Hello, world!")
}
</string></pre>
The return type comes after the parameter list, separated by a colon.
<pre lang="kotlin">fun plus(a: Int, b: Int): Int { 
  return a+b
}
</pre>
The difference between a statement and an expression is that an expression has a value, which can be used as part of another expression, whereas a statement is always a top-level element in its enclosing block, and does not have its own value. In Java, all control structures are statements. In Kotlin, most control structures, except for the loops (for, do, and do/while) are expressions. The ability to combine control structures with other expressions lets you express many common patterns concisely.
On the other hand, assignments are expressions in Java and become statements in Kotlin. This helps avoid confusion between comparisons and assignments, which is a common source of mistakes.
If a function is written with its body in curly braces, we say that this function has a block body. If it returns an expression directly, it has an expression body.
<pre>fun plus(a: Int, b: Int): Int = a + b</pre>
<h3>Kotlin Varialbes</h3>
in Kotlin you start a variable with a keyword, and you may (or may not) put the type after the variable name. If you don’t specify the type, the compiler analyzes the initializer expression and uses its type as the variable type.
<pre lang="kotlin">var a:Int = 1
var b = 2
</pre>
There are two keywords to declare a variable:
<b>val — Immutable reference.</b> A variable declared with val can’t be
reassigned after it’s initialized. It corresponds to a final variable in Java.
<b>var — Mutable reference. </b>The value of such a variable can be changed.
Note that, a val reference is immutable and cannot be changed, but the object that it points to may be mutable; the var keyword allows a variable to change its value, but its type is fixed.
<b>String templates</b>
Kotlin allows you to refer to local variables in string literals by putting the $ character in front of the variable name. This is equivalent to Java’s string concatenation. If you need to include the $ character in a string, you escape it.
<pre lang="kotlin">    val name = "Kotlin"
    println("Hello, $name")
</pre>
<h3>Kotlin Classes and Properties</h3>
In Kotlin, properties are a first-class language feature, which entirely replaces fields and accessor methods. Basically, when you declare a property, you declare the corresponding accessors, getter for a read-only property, and both a getter and a setter for a writable one. When you access the property directly, the getter is invoked.
<pre lang="kotlin">    data class Language(val name: String, 
                   val year: Int)
    val language = Language("Kotlin", 2011)
    println(language.name)
</pre>