---
ID: 918
post_title: OpenGL
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/opengl/
published: true
post_date: 2019-04-06 20:28:45
---
<h2>OpenGL Introduction</h2>
<p>OpenGL is a Graphics rendering API which is operating system independent, window system independent and has high-quality color images composed of geometric and image primitives.
Rendering is the process by which a computer creates an image from models.</p>
<b>OpenGL major operations to render an image:</b>
<ul>
<li>Use geometric primitives to specify the data for constructing shapes</li>
<li>Execute various shaders to perform calculations on the input primitives
to determine their position, color, and other rendering attributes. 
Shaders are special functions that the graphics processing unit (GPU) executes.In
OpenGL, there are four shader stages that you can use. The most common
are vertex shaders, which process vertex data, and fragment shaders, which
operate on the fragments generated by the rasterizer. Both vertex and
fragment shaders are required in every OpenGL program.</li>
<li>Convert the mathematical description of the input primitives into
their fragments associated with locations on the screen. This process is
called rasterization.</li>
<li>Finally, execute a fragment shader for each of the fragments generated
by rasterization, which will determine the fragment’s final color and
position.</li>
<li>Possibly perform additional per-fragment operations such as determining
if the object that the fragment was generated from is visible, or
blending the fragment’s color with the current color in that screen
location.</li>
<p>OpenGL implements a rendering pipeline, which is
a sequence of processing stages for converting the data your application
provides to OpenGL into a final rendered image.</p>
Vertex Data -> Vertex Shader -> Tessellation Control Shader
-> Tessellation Evaluation Shader -> Geometry Shader
-> Primitive Setup -> Clipping -> Rasterization
-> Fragment Shader
<h3>OpenGL Installation</h3>
<p>To install OpenGL on Ubuntu, run below command,</p>
<pre>
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install libglu1-mesa-dev freeglut3-dev mesa-common-dev
</pre>
<p>Compile and run below file to check if installed ok,</p>
<pre lang="c++">
#include <GL/glut.h>
 
void displayMe(void){
  glClear(GL_COLOR_BUFFER_BIT);
  glBegin(GL_POLYGON);
  glVertex3f(0.5, 0.0, 0.5);
  glVertex3f(0.5, 0.0, 0.0);
  glVertex3f(0.0, 0.5, 0.0);
  glVertex3f(0.0, 0.0, 0.5);
  glEnd();
  glFlush();
}
 
int main(int argc, char** argv)
{
  glutInit(&argc, argv);
  glutInitDisplayMode(GLUT_SINGLE);
  glutInitWindowSize(400, 400);
  glutInitWindowPosition(100, 100);
  glutCreateWindow("Hello world!");
  glutDisplayFunc(displayMe);
  glutMainLoop();
  return 0;
}
</pre>
<pre>
$ g++ main.cpp -o main -lglut -lGLU -lGL
./main
</pre>

<h2>OpenGL Shader</h2>