---
ID: 778
post_title: Docker
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/docker/
published: true
post_date: 2019-03-17 02:15:06
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h3>Docker Introduction</h3>
    <p>There are different virtualization technologies. Hypervisor
      virtualization lets one or more independent machines run virtually on
      physical hardware via an intermediation layer. Containers runs in user
      space on top of an operating system’s kernel. Docker is an open-source
      engine that automates the deployment of applications into containers. </p>
    <h3>Docker Installation</h3>
    <p>Below is how to install docker on Ubuntu.</p>
    <pre># Adding prerequisite Ubuntu packages
sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl software-properties-common
# Adding the Docker GPG key
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
# Adding the Docker APT repository
sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable"
# Updating APT sources
sudo apt-get update
# Installing the Docker packages on Ubuntu
sudo apt-get install docker-ce
#Checking Docker is installed on Ubuntu
sudo docker info</pre>
    <p>If you uses firewall UFW drops all forwarded packets. You’ll need to
      enable forwarding in UFW for Docker to function correctly. In file
      /etc/default/ufw, change</p>
    <pre>DEFAULT_FORWARD_POLICY="DROP"</pre>
    to
    <pre>DEFAULT_FORWARD_POLICY="ACCEPT"</pre>
    The reload firewall.
    <pre>sudo ufw reload by run,</pre>
    <p>To start, check status, and stop docker.</p>
    <pre>sudo service docker start 
sudo service docker status
sudo service docker stop
</pre>
    <h4>Docker Commands</h4>
    <p>Below is a list of docker commands,</p>
    <ul>
      <li> attach: Attach local standard input, output, and error streams to a
        running container</li>
      <li> build: Build an image from a Dockerfile</li>
      <li> commit: Create a new image from a container's changes</li>
      <li> cp: Copy files/folders between a container and the local filesystem</li>
      <li> create: Create a new container</li>
      <li> deploy: Deploy a new stack or update an existing stack</li>
      <li> diff: Inspect changes to files or directories on a container's
        filesystem</li>
      <li> events: Get real time events from the server</li>
      <li> exec: Run a command in a running container</li>
      <li> export: Export a container's filesystem as a tar archive</li>
      <li> history: Show the history of an image</li>
      <li> images: List images</li>
      <li> import: Import the contents from a tarball to create a filesystem
        image</li>
      <li> info: Display system-wide information</li>
      <li> inspect: Return low-level information on Docker objects</li>
      <li> kill: Kill one or more running containers</li>
      <li> load: Load an image from a tar archive or STDIN</li>
      <li> login: Log in to a Docker registry</li>
      <li> logout: Log out from a Docker registry</li>
      <li> logs: Fetch the logs of a container</li>
      <li> pause: Pause all processes within one or more containers</li>
      <li> port: List port mappings or a specific mapping for the container</li>
      <li> ps: List containers</li>
      <li> pull: Pull an image or a repository from a registry</li>
      <li> push: Push an image or a repository to a registry</li>
      <li> rename: Rename a container</li>
      <li> restart: Restart one or more containers</li>
      <li> rm: Remove one or more containers</li>
      <li> rmi: Remove one or more images</li>
      <li> run: Run a command in a new container&lt;:/li&gt; </li>
      <li> save: Save one or more images to a ta:r archive (streamed to STDOUT
        by default)</li>
      <li> search: Search the Docker Hub for images</li>
      <li> start: Start one or more stopped containers</li>
      <li> stats: Display a live stream of container(s) resource usage
        statistics</li>
      <li> stop: Stop one or more running containers</li>
      <li> tag: Create a tag TARGET_IMAGE that refers to SOURCE_IMAGE</li>
      <li> top: Display the running processes of a container</li>
      <li> unpause: Unpause all processes within one or more containers</li>
      <li> update: Update configuration of one or more containers</li>
      <li> version: Show the Docker version information</li>
      <li> wait: Block until one or more containers stop, then print their exit
        codes</li>
    </ul>
    <p>To show the list, type <code>sudo docker help</code>, to show details of
      a command, type <code>sudo docker help run</code></p>
    <h3>Containers in Docker</h3>
    <p>When a container in Docker is created, Docker first checked for the Linux
      image on local Docker host. If it can’t find the image, it will look for
      it on the Docker Hub registry from Internet. Once Docker had found the
      image, it downloaded the image and stored it on the local host. Docker
      then used this image to create a new container inside the filesystem. The
      container has a network, IP address, and a bridge interface to talk to the
      local host. Finally, Docker run the command in the new container.&nbsp; </p>
    <pre>sudo docker run -i -t ubuntu /bin/bash
root@9fa7a28b3857:/#</pre>
    <p>To show container namess, start/stop/attach containers by name.</p>
    <pre>docker ps -a
sudo docker start vibrant_lumiere
sudo docker stop vibrant_lumiere
sudo docker attach vibrant_lumiere
</pre>
    <h3>Docker Images</h3>
    <p>A Docker image is made up of filesystems layered over each other. At the
      base is a boot filesystem, bootfs , which resembles the typical Linux/Unix
      boot filesystem. Docker next layers a root filesystem, rootfs , on top of
      the boot filesystem. This rootfs can be one or more operating systems.
      Docker takes advantage of a union mount to add more read-only filesystems
      onto the root filesystem. A union mount is a mount that allows several
      filesystems to be mounted at one time but appear to be one filesystem. The
      union mount overlays the filesystems on top of one another so that the
      resulting filesystem may contain files and subdirectories from any or all
      of the underlying filesystems. </p>
    <p>Below is a list of docker image commands, </p>
    <ul>
      <li> build: Build an image from a Dockerfile</li>
      <li> commit: Create a new image from a container's changes</li>
      <li> images: List images</li>
      <li> login: Log in to a Docker registry</li>
      <li> logout: Log out from a Docker registry</li>
      <li> pull: Pull an image or a repository from a registry</li>
      <li> search: Search the Docker Hub for images</li>
  </body>
</html>