---
ID: 425
post_title: MongoDB
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/mongodb/
published: true
post_date: 2019-02-14 20:11:54
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h2>MongoDB Introduction</h2>
    <p>MongoDB is a database management system designed for web applications
      and internet infrastructure. It has high throughput and a powerful scaling
      strategy. </p>
    <p>MongoDB is not a traditional rational database. MongoDB's stores its
      information in documents and collections, rather than rows and tables. It
      is extremely useful to store structured documents rather than several
      tables with schemas.
    </p>
    <h3>MongoDB Documents</h3>
    <p>Documents in MongoDB are an ordered set of keys with associated values.
      Keys are strings and MongoDB cannot have duplicated strings.
    </p>
    <pre>{ "title": "MongoDB", "content": "MongoDB Introduction. MongoDB is a database management system ..."}
</pre>
    <h3>MongoDB Collections</h3>
    <p>A collection is a group of documents. A document in MongoDB is like a row
      in MySQL, a collection in MongoDB is like a table in MySQL.
      Collections have dynamic schemas, which means the documents within a
      single collection can have different structures. In other words, any
      document can be put into any collection. It is convenient to separate
      documents into different collections based on logic. You can organize
      collections with namespaced subcollections separated by (.) character. For
      example. blog.posts, blog.comments, and blog.authors, etc,.
    </p>
    <h3>MongoDB Databases</h3>
    <p>MongoDB groups collections into databases. Different databases are useful
      when storing data for different applications the same MongoDB server.
    </p>
    <h3>MongoDB Installation</h3>
    <p>You can download MongoDB from <a href="https://www.mongodb.com/">MongoDB
        Official Website</a>, install it.
      Type the following commands to start a MongoDB server.
      On Linux,
    </p>
    <pre>mongod
</pre>
    <p>On Windows,
    </p>
    <pre>C:\Program Files\MongoDB\Server\4.0\bin\mongod.exe
</pre>
    <p>When running with no arguments, mongod will use the default data
      directory, /data/db/ on Linux (or \data\db\ on Windows). If the data
      directory does not exist, the server will fail to start. You should create
      the data
      directory before starting MongoDB.
      To exit server, use Ctrl-C.
    </p>
    <h3>MongoDB Shell</h3>
    <p>To start the shell, run the mongo executable:
    </p>
    <pre>C:\Program Files\MongoDB\Server\4.0\bin\mongo.exe
</pre>
    <p>The MongoDB shell is a MontoDB client. It automatically connects to a
      MongoDB server on startup.
      The shell is also a full-featured JavaScript interpreter. You can run any
      JavaScript scripts in it.
    </p>
    <pre lang="javascript">&gt; Math.min(1, 10)
1
</pre>
    <h2>MongoDB Basics</h2>
    <h3>MongoDB Database Operations</h3>
    <p>MongoDB has no command to create database. when you use a database and
      add a collection in it, MangoDB will create it on the fly,
    </p>
    <pre>&gt; use blog
switched to db blog
&gt; db.createCollection("post")
{ "ok" : 1 } : 1 }
</pre>
    <p>To show databases on your sever, run,
    </p>
    <pre>&gt; db.getMongo().getDBNames()
[ "admin", "blog", "config", "local" ]
</pre>
    <p>Drop a database,
    </p>
    <pre>&gt; use blog
switched to db blog
&gt; db.dropDatabase()
{ "dropped" : "blog", "ok" : 1 }
</pre>
    <h3>MongoDb Collection Operations</h3>
    <p>Create a collection,
    </p>
    <pre>&gt; use blog
switched to db blog
&gt; db.createCollection("post")
{ "ok" : 1 }
</pre>
    <p>Show collections in db,
    </p>
    <pre>&gt; db.getCollectionNames()
[ "post" ]
</pre>
    <p>Drop a collection,
    </p>
    <pre>&gt; db.post.drop()
true
</pre>
    <h3>MongoDb Document Operations</h3>
    <p>Insert a document. Note you do not need explicitely create a collection,
      when you insert a docuemtn in a collection, the colleciton created
      automatically.
    </p>
    <pre>&gt; db.post.insert({"title":"MongoDB", "content":"MongoDB is ..."})
WriteResult({ "nInserted" : 1 })
</pre>
    <p>If you want to insert several document in a single collection,
    </p>
    <pre>&gt; db.post.insert([{"title":"MongoDB", "content":"MongoDB is ..."}, {"title":"JavaScript", "content":"JavaScript is ..."}])
BulkWriteResult({
        "writeErrors" : [ ],
        "writeConcernErrors" : [ ],
        "nInserted" : 2,
        "nUpserted" : 0,
        "nMatched" : 0,
        "nModified" : 0,
        "nRemoved" : 0,
        "upserted" : [ ]
})
</pre>
    <p>Show documents inserted,
    </p>
    <pre>&gt; db.post.find()
{ "_id" : ObjectId("5c66d3d14a3b67eb799bba42"), "title" : "MongoDB", "content" : "MongoDB is ..." }
{ "_id" : ObjectId("5c66d5014a3b67eb799bba43"), "title" : "MongoDB", "content" : "MongoDB is ..." }
{ "_id" : ObjectId("5c66d5014a3b67eb799bba44"), "title" : "JavaScript", "content" : "JavaScript is ..." }
&gt;
</pre>
    <p>Note MongoDb does minimal check on data inserted, so we have two
      duplicated record in datase. To avoid this, we need check if a record
      exist before insert.
      MongoDB removes a record,
    </p>
    <pre>&gt; db.post.remove({"title": "MongoDB"})
WriteResult({ "nRemoved" : 2 })
</pre>
    <p>MongoDB update a record,
    </p>
    <pre>&gt; db.post.insert({"title":"MongoDB", "content":"MongoDB is ..."})
WriteResult({ "nInserted" : 1 })
&gt; mongo = db.post.findOne({"title":"MongoDB"} )
{
        "_id" : ObjectId("5c66d7044a3b67eb799bba47"),
        "title" : "MongoDB",
        "content" : "MongoDB is ..."
}
&gt; mongo.author="admin"
admin
&gt; mongo
{
        "_id" : ObjectId("5c66d7044a3b67eb799bba47"),
        "title" : "MongoDB",
        "content" : "MongoDB is ...",
        "author" : "admin"
}
&gt; db.post.update({"title":"MongoDB"}, mongo)
WriteResult({ "nMatched" : 1, "nUpserted" : 0, "nModified" : 1 })
&gt;
</pre>
    <p>MongoDB provides a set of modifiers, $set, %unset, $push, to
      help you update your documents.
    </p>
  </body>
</html>