---
ID: 857
post_title: Scheme
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://cscourses.online/topics/scheme/
published: true
post_date: 2019-04-01 17:29:09
---
<h2>Scheme Introduction</h2>
<p>Scheme is a minimal functional language. It has simple syntax, and highly abstracts away from the machine.</p>
<p>Below is a Scheme "Hello, World!",</p>
<pre>
$ (display "Hello, World!")
Hello, World!   
</pre>
<h2>Schem Types, Operators</h2>
<h3>Scheme Datatypes</h3>
<h4>Atomic datatypes</h4>
<p>Atomic datatypes are unique and immutable.</p> 
<ul>
<li>Booleans: #t for true, and #f for false.</li>
<li>Numbers: 1, 1.2</li>
<li>Characters: #\a, #\b</li>
<li>Symbols: Symbols are sequences of characters, </li>
</ul>
<h4>Compound datatypes</h4>
<p>Compound datatypes are mutable.</p>
<ul>
<li>Pairs and Lists - '(1 2)</li>
<li>Vectors -  #(100 90 80 70)</li>
<li>Strings - "Hello, World!"</li>
</ul>
<h3>Scheme Operators</h3>
<h4>Arithmetic Operators</h4> 
+, -, *, /
<h4>List Operators</h4> 
<ul>
<li>cons - creates a 'Pair' of values, known as a cons cell. A cons cell has two parts: The car and the cdr. <code>(cons 1 '())</code></li>
<li>car - first value of the list, <code>(car (cons 1 '()))</code></li>
<li>cdr - all rest value of the list, <code>(cdr (cons 1 '()))</code></li>
<li>list - Create list, <code>(list 1 2 3)</code></li>
</ul>

<h2>Scheme Functions</h2>
<p>Arithmetic Functions</p>
<ul>
<li>(sin x), (cos x), (tan x), (asin x), (acos x), (atan x) - Trigonometric Functions.</li>
<li>(expt x y) - Raise a base to an exponent.</li>
<li>(sqrt x) - The square root of a number.</li>
<li>(log x) -   the natural logarithm of a number.</li>
<li>(floor x) - This returns the largest integer that is no larger than x.</li>
<li>(ceiling x) - This returns the smallest integer that is no smaller than x.</li>
<li>(truncate x) - This returns the integer value closest to x that is no larger than the absolute value of x.</li>
<li>(round x) - This rounds value of x to the nearest integer as is usual in mathematics. It even works when halfway between values.</li>
<li>(abs x) - This returns the absolute value of x.</li>
<li>(remainder x y) - The remainder of x/y.</li>
<li>(modulo x y) - The modulo of x and y.</li>
</ul>